docs/sdks/react-native/barcode-generator.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: reactnativeSidebar
sidebar_label: Get Started
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# Barcode Generator

The Barcode Generator is a simple tool to generate barcodes directly from the Scandit SDK. In this guide, we will show you how to use the Barcode Generator to generate barcodes and QR codes. 

The Barcode Generator supports the following formats:

* Code 39
* Code 128
* EAN 13
* UPCA
* ITF
* QR
* DataMatrix

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out this [guide](/sdks/react-native/add-sdk).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

## Generating Barcodes

To generate barcodes, you need to create a [`DataCaptureContext`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). 

With the context you can then instantiate a [`BarcodeGeneratorBuilder`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGeneratorBuilder), and use the method of [`BarcodeGenerator`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGenerator) for the symbology you are interested in, in this example Code 128.

You can configure the colors used in the resulting image:

```javascript
const DataCaptureContext = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(licenseKey);
const builder = new Scandit.BarcodeGenerator.Code128BarcodeGeneratorBuilder(dataCaptureContext)
    .withBackgroundColor(Color.WHITE)
    .withForegroundColor(Color.BLACK);
```

When the builder is configured get the `BarcodeGenerator` and try to generate the image:

```javascript
try {
    const generator = await builder.build();
    const image = await generator.generate(dataString, 200);
    // Use the image
} catch (error) {
    // Handle the error
    console.error(error);
}
```

See the complete [API reference](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html) for more information.

## Generating QR Codes

To generate barcodes, you need to create a [`DataCaptureContext`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). 

With the context you can then instantiate a [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder) using the method of [`BarcodeGenerator`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGenerator) specific for QR codes.

You can configure the colors used in the resulting image, and the two settings that can be configured for QR codes: [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.errorCorrectionLevel`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.WithErrorCorrectionLevel) and [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.versionNumber`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.WithVersionNumber).

```javascript
const DataCaptureContext = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(licenseKey);
const builder = new Scandit.BarcodeGenerator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder(dataCaptureContext)
    .withBackgroundColor(Color.WHITE)
    .withForegroundColor(Color.BLACK)
    .withErrorCorrectionLevel(Scandit.QrCodeErrorCorrectionLevel.MEDIUM)
    .withVersionNumber(4);
```

When the builder is configured get the `BarcodeGenerator` and try to generate the image:

```javascript
try {
    const generator = await builder.build();
    const image = await generator.generate(dataString, 200);
    // Use the image
} catch (error) {
    // Handle the error
    console.error(error);
}
```

See the complete [API reference](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html) for more information.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/react-native/barcode-generator.md, after:

---
description: "The Barcode Generator is a simple tool to generate barcodes directly from the Scandit SDK. In this guide, we will show you how to use the Barcode Generator to generate barcodes and QR codes.                                                                  "

displayed_sidebar: reactnativeSidebar
sidebar_label: Get Started
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# Barcode Generator

The Barcode Generator is a simple tool to generate barcodes directly from the Scandit SDK. In this guide, we will show you how to use the Barcode Generator to generate barcodes and QR codes. 

The Barcode Generator supports the following formats:

* Code 39
* Code 128
* EAN 13
* UPCA
* ITF
* QR
* DataMatrix

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out this [guide](/sdks/react-native/add-sdk).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

## Generating Barcodes

To generate barcodes, you need to create a [`DataCaptureContext`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). 

With the context you can then instantiate a [`BarcodeGeneratorBuilder`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGeneratorBuilder), and use the method of [`BarcodeGenerator`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGenerator) for the symbology you are interested in, in this example Code 128.

You can configure the colors used in the resulting image:

```javascript
const DataCaptureContext = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(licenseKey);
const builder = new Scandit.BarcodeGenerator.Code128BarcodeGeneratorBuilder(dataCaptureContext)
    .withBackgroundColor(Color.WHITE)
    .withForegroundColor(Color.BLACK);
```

When the builder is configured get the `BarcodeGenerator` and try to generate the image:

```javascript
try {
    const generator = await builder.build();
    const image = await generator.generate(dataString, 200);
    // Use the image
} catch (error) {
    // Handle the error
    console.error(error);
}
```

See the complete [API reference](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html) for more information.

## Generating QR Codes

To generate barcodes, you need to create a [`DataCaptureContext`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). 

With the context you can then instantiate a [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder) using the method of [`BarcodeGenerator`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.BarcodeGenerator) specific for QR codes.

You can configure the colors used in the resulting image, and the two settings that can be configured for QR codes: [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.errorCorrectionLevel`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.WithErrorCorrectionLevel) and [`QRCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.versionNumber`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator-builder.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.generator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder.WithVersionNumber).

```javascript
const DataCaptureContext = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(licenseKey);
const builder = new Scandit.BarcodeGenerator.QrCodeBarcodeGeneratorBuilder(dataCaptureContext)
    .withBackgroundColor(Color.WHITE)
    .withForegroundColor(Color.BLACK)
    .withErrorCorrectionLevel(Scandit.QrCodeErrorCorrectionLevel.MEDIUM)
    .withVersionNumber(4);
```

When the builder is configured get the `BarcodeGenerator` and try to generate the image:

```javascript
try {
    const generator = await builder.build();
    const image = await generator.generate(dataString, 200);
    // Use the image
} catch (error) {
    // Handle the error
    console.error(error);
}
```

See the complete [API reference](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/react-native/barcode-capture/api/barcode-generator.html) for more information.
