docs/sdks/android/id-capture/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Get Started

This page will guide you through the process of adding ID Capture to your Android application. ID Capture is a mode of the Scandit Data Capture SDK that allows you to capture and extract information from personal identification documents, such as driver's licenses, passports, and ID cards.

The general steps are:

- Create a new Data Capture Context instance
- Access a Camera
- Configure the Capture Settings
- Implement a Listener to Receive Scan Results
- Set-up the Capture View and Overlay
- Start the Capture Process

:::warning
Using ID Capture at the same time as other modes (e.g. Barcode Capture) is not supported.
:::

## Prerequisites

Before starting with your integration, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. See the [installation guide](/sdks/android/add-sdk.md) for details.

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### External Dependencies

import ExternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_external-deps-android.mdx';

<ExternalDependencies/>

### Module Overview

import IdModuleOverview from '../../../partials/get-started/_id-module-overview.mdx';

<IdModuleOverview/>

### Mobile ID Scanning

ID Capture allows capture of ISO mobile documents (mdoc) using Bluetooth by setting up a BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) communication between the mdoc app and Scandit SDK.

To do so, add the following feature/permissions to `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Note that Scandit SDK may act as either a Central or a Peripheral device so it must request permissions to advertise, scan, and connect to other devices (see the [Android Bluetooth permissions documentation](https://developer.android.com/develop/connectivity/bluetooth/bt-permissions)).

```xml
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.bluetooth_le" android:required="true"/>
<!-- Legacy bluetooth permissions -->
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADMIN"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<!-- Bluetooth permissions for Android 12+ -->
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADVERTISE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT" />
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
    android:usesPermissionFlags="neverForLocation"
    tools:targetApi="s" />
```

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextAndroid from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-android.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextAndroid/>

## Access a Camera

Next, you need to create a new instance of the [Camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera) class to indicate the camera to stream previews and to capture images.

```java
camera = Camera.getDefaultCamera(IdCapture.createRecommendedCameraSettings());

if (camera == null) {
    throw new IllegalStateException("Failed to init camera!");
}

dataCaptureContext.setFrameSource(camera);
```

## Configure the Capture Settings

Use [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings) to configure the scanner type to use and the documents that should be accepted and/or rejected.

Check [IdCaptureDocumentType](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-document.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureDocumentType) for all the available options.

:::tip
By default, [anonymized data](./advanced.md#configure-data-anonymization) is not returned in accordance with local regulations for specific documents. This setting can be disabled for testing purposes, but be sure to comply with local laws and requirements in production.
:::

```java
List<DocumentType> acceptedDocuments = new ArrayList();
List<DocumentType> rejectedDocuments = new ArrayList();

// Documents from any region:
acceptedDocuments.add(new IdCard(Region.AnyRegion));
// Only documents issued by a specific country:
acceptedDocuments.add(new IdCard(Region.Germany));
// Regional documents:
acceptedDocuments.add(new RegionSpecific.ApecBusinessTravelCard());
// Reject passports from certain regions:
rejectedDocuments.add(new Passport(Region.Cuba));

IdCaptureSettings settings = new IdCaptureSettings();
settings.acceptedDocuments = acceptedDocuments;
settings.rejectedDocuments = rejectedDocuments;

// To scan only one-sided documents and a given zone:
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(barcode = true);
// or
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(machineReadableZone = true);
// or
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(visualInspectionZone = true);

// To scan both sides of the document:
settings.scannerType = new FullDocumentScanner();
```

Create a new ID Capture mode with the chosen settings:

```java
IdCapture idCapture = IdCapture.forDataCaptureContext(context, settings);
```

## Implement a Listener

To receive scan results, implement and [IdCaptureListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.id.IIdCaptureListener). The listener provides two callbacks: `onIdCaptured` and `onIdRejected`.

```java
IdCaptureListener listener = new IdCaptureListner() {
    @Override
    public void onIdCaptured(CapturedId data) {
    // Success! Handle extracted data here.
}

    @Override
    public void onIdRejected(CapturedId data, RejectionReason reason) {
    // Something went wrong. Inspect the reason to determine the follow-up action.
    }
}

idCapture.setListener(listener);
```

### Handling Success

Capture results are delivered as a [CapturedId](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId). This class contains data common for all kinds of personal identification documents.

For more specific information, use its non-null result properties (e.g. [CapturedId.barcode](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId.Barcode)).

On a successful scan you may read the extracted data from `CapturedId`:
    
```java
@Override
public void onIdCaptured(CapturedId data) {
    String fullName = data.getFullName();
    DateResult dateOfBirth = data.getDateOfBirth();
    DateResult dateOfExpiry = data.getDateOfExpiry();
    String documentNumber = data.getDocumentNumber();

    // Process data:
    processData(fullName, dateOfBirth, dateOfExpiry, documentNumber); 
}
```
:::tip
All data fields are optional, so it's important to verify whether the required information is present  if some of the accepted documents may not contain certain data.
:::

### Handling Rejection

The ID scanning process may fail for various reasons. Start from inspecting [`RejectionReason`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/rejection-reason.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.RejectionReason) to understand the cause.

You may wish to implement the follow-up action based on the reason of failure:

```java
@Override
public void onIdRejected(CapturedId data, RejectionReason reason) {
     if (reason == RejectionReason.Timeout) {
         // Ask the user to retry, or offer alternative input method.
     } else if (reason == RejectionReason.DocumentExpired) {
         // Ask the user to provide alternative document.
     } else if (reason == RejectionReason.HolderUnderage) {
         // Reject the process.
     }
}
```

## Set up Capture View and Overlay

When using the built-in camera as frame source, you may typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process.

To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```java
DataCaptureView dataCaptureView = DataCaptureView.newInstance(this, dataCaptureContext);
setContentView(dataCaptureView);
```

Then, add an instance of [IdCaptureOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay) to the view:

```java
IdCaptureOverlay overlay = IdCaptureOverlay.newInstance(idCapture, dataCaptureView);
```

The overlay chooses the displayed UI automatically, based on the selected [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings).

If you prefer to show a different UI or to temporarily hide it, set the appropriate [IdCaptureOverlay.idLayout](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay.IdLayout).

## Start the Capture Process

Finally, turn on the camera to start scanning:

```java
camera.switchToDesiredState(FrameSourceState.ON);
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/android/id-capture/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "This page will guide you through the process of adding ID Capture to your Android application. ID Capture is a mode of the Scandit Data Capture SDK that allows you to capture and extract information from personal identification documents, such as driver's licenses, passports, and ID cards.                                                     "

sidebar_position: 2
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Get Started

This page will guide you through the process of adding ID Capture to your Android application. ID Capture is a mode of the Scandit Data Capture SDK that allows you to capture and extract information from personal identification documents, such as driver's licenses, passports, and ID cards.

The general steps are:

- Create a new Data Capture Context instance
- Access a Camera
- Configure the Capture Settings
- Implement a Listener to Receive Scan Results
- Set-up the Capture View and Overlay
- Start the Capture Process

:::warning
Using ID Capture at the same time as other modes (e.g. Barcode Capture) is not supported.
:::

## Prerequisites

Before starting with your integration, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. See the [installation guide](/sdks/android/add-sdk.md) for details.

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### External Dependencies

import ExternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_external-deps-android.mdx';

<ExternalDependencies/>

### Module Overview

import IdModuleOverview from '../../../partials/get-started/_id-module-overview.mdx';

<IdModuleOverview/>

### Mobile ID Scanning

ID Capture allows capture of ISO mobile documents (mdoc) using Bluetooth by setting up a BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) communication between the mdoc app and Scandit SDK.

To do so, add the following feature/permissions to `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Note that Scandit SDK may act as either a Central or a Peripheral device so it must request permissions to advertise, scan, and connect to other devices (see the [Android Bluetooth permissions documentation](https://developer.android.com/develop/connectivity/bluetooth/bt-permissions)).

```xml
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.bluetooth_le" android:required="true"/>
<!-- Legacy bluetooth permissions -->
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADMIN"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"
    android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<!-- Bluetooth permissions for Android 12+ -->
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADVERTISE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT" />
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_SCAN"
    android:usesPermissionFlags="neverForLocation"
    tools:targetApi="s" />
```

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextAndroid from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-android.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextAndroid/>

## Access a Camera

Next, you need to create a new instance of the [Camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera) class to indicate the camera to stream previews and to capture images.

```java
camera = Camera.getDefaultCamera(IdCapture.createRecommendedCameraSettings());

if (camera == null) {
    throw new IllegalStateException("Failed to init camera!");
}

dataCaptureContext.setFrameSource(camera);
```

## Configure the Capture Settings

Use [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings) to configure the scanner type to use and the documents that should be accepted and/or rejected.

Check [IdCaptureDocumentType](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-document.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureDocumentType) for all the available options.

:::tip
By default, [anonymized data](./advanced.md#configure-data-anonymization) is not returned in accordance with local regulations for specific documents. This setting can be disabled for testing purposes, but be sure to comply with local laws and requirements in production.
:::

```java
List<DocumentType> acceptedDocuments = new ArrayList();
List<DocumentType> rejectedDocuments = new ArrayList();

// Documents from any region:
acceptedDocuments.add(new IdCard(Region.AnyRegion));
// Only documents issued by a specific country:
acceptedDocuments.add(new IdCard(Region.Germany));
// Regional documents:
acceptedDocuments.add(new RegionSpecific.ApecBusinessTravelCard());
// Reject passports from certain regions:
rejectedDocuments.add(new Passport(Region.Cuba));

IdCaptureSettings settings = new IdCaptureSettings();
settings.acceptedDocuments = acceptedDocuments;
settings.rejectedDocuments = rejectedDocuments;

// To scan only one-sided documents and a given zone:
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(barcode = true);
// or
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(machineReadableZone = true);
// or
settings.scannerType = new SingleSideScanner(visualInspectionZone = true);

// To scan both sides of the document:
settings.scannerType = new FullDocumentScanner();
```

Create a new ID Capture mode with the chosen settings:

```java
IdCapture idCapture = IdCapture.forDataCaptureContext(context, settings);
```

## Implement a Listener

To receive scan results, implement and [IdCaptureListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.id.IIdCaptureListener). The listener provides two callbacks: `onIdCaptured` and `onIdRejected`.

```java
IdCaptureListener listener = new IdCaptureListner() {
    @Override
    public void onIdCaptured(CapturedId data) {
    // Success! Handle extracted data here.
}

    @Override
    public void onIdRejected(CapturedId data, RejectionReason reason) {
    // Something went wrong. Inspect the reason to determine the follow-up action.
    }
}

idCapture.setListener(listener);
```

### Handling Success

Capture results are delivered as a [CapturedId](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId). This class contains data common for all kinds of personal identification documents.

For more specific information, use its non-null result properties (e.g. [CapturedId.barcode](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId.Barcode)).

On a successful scan you may read the extracted data from `CapturedId`:
    
```java
@Override
public void onIdCaptured(CapturedId data) {
    String fullName = data.getFullName();
    DateResult dateOfBirth = data.getDateOfBirth();
    DateResult dateOfExpiry = data.getDateOfExpiry();
    String documentNumber = data.getDocumentNumber();

    // Process data:
    processData(fullName, dateOfBirth, dateOfExpiry, documentNumber); 
}
```
:::tip
All data fields are optional, so it's important to verify whether the required information is present  if some of the accepted documents may not contain certain data.
:::

### Handling Rejection

The ID scanning process may fail for various reasons. Start from inspecting [`RejectionReason`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/rejection-reason.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.RejectionReason) to understand the cause.

You may wish to implement the follow-up action based on the reason of failure:

```java
@Override
public void onIdRejected(CapturedId data, RejectionReason reason) {
     if (reason == RejectionReason.Timeout) {
         // Ask the user to retry, or offer alternative input method.
     } else if (reason == RejectionReason.DocumentExpired) {
         // Ask the user to provide alternative document.
     } else if (reason == RejectionReason.HolderUnderage) {
         // Reject the process.
     }
}
```

## Set up Capture View and Overlay

When using the built-in camera as frame source, you may typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process.

To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```java
DataCaptureView dataCaptureView = DataCaptureView.newInstance(this, dataCaptureContext);
setContentView(dataCaptureView);
```

Then, add an instance of [IdCaptureOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay) to the view:

```java
IdCaptureOverlay overlay = IdCaptureOverlay.newInstance(idCapture, dataCaptureView);
```

The overlay chooses the displayed UI automatically, based on the selected [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings).

If you prefer to show a different UI or to temporarily hide it, set the appropriate [IdCaptureOverlay.idLayout](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay.IdLayout).

## Start the Capture Process

Finally, turn on the camera to start scanning:

```java
camera.switchToDesiredState(FrameSourceState.ON);
```
