docs/sdks/android/label-capture/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Advanced Configurations

## Customization of the Overlays

### Basic Overlay

To customize the appearance of an overlay you can implement a [LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener) and/or [LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-advanced-overlay-listener.html) interface, depending on the overlay(s) you are using.

The method [brushForLabel()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForLabel) is called every time a label is captured, and [brushForField()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForField) is called for each of its fields to determine the brush for the label or field.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
overlay.listener = object : LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener {
    /*
     * Customize the appearance of the overlay for the individual fields.
     */
    override fun brushForField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        field: LabelField,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ): Brush? = when (field.name) {
        "<your-barcode-field-name>" -> Brush(Color.CYAN.withAlpha(128), Color.CYAN, 1f)
        "<your-expiry-date-field-name>" -> Brush(Color.GREEN.withAlpha(128), Color.GREEN, 1f)
        else -> Brush(Color.TRANSPARENT, Color.TRANSPARENT, 0f)
    }

    /*
     * Customize the appearance of the overlay for the full label.
     * In this example, we disable label overlays by returning null always.
     */
    override fun brushForLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ): Brush? = null

    override fun onLabelTapped(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ) { 
        /*
         * Handle the user tap gesture on the label.
         */
    }
}

```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
overlay.setListener(new LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener() {
    @Nullable
    @Override
    public Brush brushForLabel(
        @NonNull LabelCaptureBasicOverlay overlay, @NonNull CapturedLabel label) {
        return null;
    }

    @Override
    public Brush brushForField(@NonNull LabelCaptureBasicOverlay overlay,
                               @NonNull CapturedField field, @NonNull CapturedLabel label) {
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-barcode-field-name>")) {
            return new Brush(
              getResources().getColor(R.color.barcode_overlay_fill),
              getResources().getColor(R.color.barcode_overlay_stroke), 
              0f
            );
        } 
        
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-expiry-date-field-name>")) {
            return new Brush(
              getResources().getColor(R.color.expiry_date_overlay_fill),
              getResources().getColor(R.color.expiry_date_overlay_stroke), 
              0f
            );
        } 
        
        return null;
    }
});
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip
You can also use `LabelCaptureBasicOverlay.setLabelBrush()` and `LabelCaptureBasicOverlay.setCapturedFieldBrush()` to configure the overlay if you don't need to customize the appearance based on the name or content of the fields.
:::

### Advanced Overlay

For more advanced use cases, such as adding custom views or implementing Augmented Reality (AR) features, you can use the `LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay`. The example below creates an advanced overlay, configuring it to display a styled warning message below expiry date fields when they’re close to expiring, while ignoring other fields.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Create an advanced overlay that allows for custom views to be added over detected label fields
// This is the key component for implementing Augmented Reality features
val advancedOverlay = LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay.newInstance(dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(), view)

// Configure the advanced overlay with a listener that handles AR content creation and positioning
advancedOverlay.listener = object : LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener {
    
    // This method is called when a label is detected - we return null since we're only adding AR elements to specific fields, not the entire label
    override fun viewForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel
    ): View? = null

    // This defines where on the detected label the AR view would be anchored 
    override fun anchorForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel
    ): Anchor = Anchor.CENTER

    // This defines the offset from the anchor point for the label's AR view
    override fun offsetForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel,
        view: View
    ): PointWithUnit = PointWithUnit(0f, 0f, MeasureUnit.PIXEL)

    // This method is called when a field is detected in a label
    override fun viewForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField
    ): View? {
        // We only want to create AR elements for expiry date fields that are text-based
        if (labelField.name.contains("expiry", ignoreCase = true) && labelField.type == LabelFieldType.TEXT) {
        
            //
            // data extraction from expiry date field and days until expiry date calculation
            //
            
            // Check if scanned expiry date is to close to actual date
            if (daysUntilExpiry < dayLimit) {
            
                // Create and configure the AR element - a TextView with appropriate styling
                // This view will appear as an overlay on the camera feed
                return TextView(context).apply {
                
                    text = "Item expires soon!"
                    setTextColor(Color.WHITE)
                    setBackgroundColor(Color.RED)
                    setPadding(16, 8, 16, 8)
                    
                    // Add an icon to the left of the text for visual guidance
                    // This enhances the AR experience by providing clear visual cues
                    val drawable = ContextCompat.getDrawable(context, R.drawable.ic_warning)
                    drawable?.setBounds(0, 0, drawable.intrinsicWidth, drawable.intrinsicHeight)
                    setCompoundDrawables(drawable, null, null, null)
                    compoundDrawablePadding = 16 // Add some padding between icon and text
                }
            }
        }
        // Return null for any fields that aren't expiry dates, which means no AR overlay
        return null
    }
    
    // This defines where on the detected field the AR view should be anchored
    // BOTTOM_CENTER places it right below the expiry date text for better visibility
    override fun anchorForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField
    ): Anchor = Anchor.BOTTOM_CENTER

    // This defines the offset from the anchor point
    override fun offsetForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField,
        view: View
    ): PointWithUnit = PointWithUnit(0f, 22f, MeasureUnit.DIP)
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Create an advanced overlay that allows for custom views to be added over detected label fields
// This is the key component for implementing Augmented Reality features
LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay advancedOverlay = LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay.newInstance(
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(), view);

// Configure the advanced overlay with a listener that handles AR content creation and positioning
advancedOverlay.setListener(new LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener() {

    @Nullable
    @Override
    public View viewForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                     @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel) {
        // We return null since we're only adding AR elements to specific fields, not the entire label
        return null;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public Anchor anchorForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                         @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel) {
        // This defines where on the detected label the AR view would be anchored
        return Anchor.CENTER;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public PointWithUnit offsetForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                                @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel,
                                                @NonNull View view) {
        // This defines the offset from the anchor point for the label's AR view
        return new PointWithUnit(0f, 0f, MeasureUnit.PIXEL);
    }

    @Nullable
    @Override
    public View viewForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                          @NonNull LabelField labelField) {
        // We only want to create AR elements for expiry date fields that are text-based
        if (labelField.getName().toLowerCase().contains("expiry") &&
            labelField.getType() == LabelFieldType.TEXT) {

            //
            // data extraction from expiry date field and days until expiry date calculation
            //

            // Assume we have a method `daysUntilExpiry()` that returns the days left until expiry
            int daysUntilExpiry = daysUntilExpiry(labelField.getValue());
            int dayLimit = 3; // Example threshold

            if (daysUntilExpiry < dayLimit) {
                // Create and configure the AR element - a TextView with appropriate styling
                // This view will appear as an overlay on the camera feed
                TextView textView = new TextView(context);
                textView.setText("Item expires soon!");
                textView.setTextColor(Color.WHITE);
                textView.setBackgroundColor(Color.RED);
                textView.setPadding(16, 8, 16, 8);

                // Add an icon to the left of the text for visual guidance
                Drawable drawable = ContextCompat.getDrawable(context, R.drawable.ic_warning);
                if (drawable != null) {
                    drawable.setBounds(0, 0, drawable.getIntrinsicWidth(), drawable.getIntrinsicHeight());
                    textView.setCompoundDrawables(drawable, null, null, null);
                }
                textView.setCompoundDrawablePadding(16); // Padding between icon and text

                return textView;
            }
        }
        // Return null for any fields that aren't expiry dates, which means no AR overlay
        return null;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public Anchor anchorForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                              @NonNull LabelField labelField) {
        // BOTTOM_CENTER places it right below the expiry date text for better visibility
        return Anchor.BOTTOM_CENTER;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public PointWithUnit offsetForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                                     @NonNull LabelField labelField,
                                                     @NonNull View view) {
        // This defines the offset from the anchor point
        return new PointWithUnit(0f, 22f, MeasureUnit.DIP);
    }
});
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Validation Flow

Implementing a validation flow in your Smart Label Capture application differs from the [Get Started](/sdks/android/label-capture/get-started.md) steps outlined earlier as follows:

### Visualize the Scan Process

Validation flow uses a different overlay, the [LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-validation-flow-overlay.html). This overlay provides a user interface that guides users through the label capture process, including validation steps.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Create the overlay
validationFlowOverlay = LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay.newInstance(
    requireContext(),
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(),
    view
)

// Set the listener to receive validation events
validationFlowOverlay?.listener = this
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Create the overlay
validationFlowOverlay = LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay.newInstance(
    getContext(),
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(),
    view
);
// Set the listener to receive validation events
validationFlowOverlay.setListener(this);
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Adjust the Hint Messages

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Configure the validation flow with custom settings
val validationSettings = LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings.newInstance()
validationSettings.apply {
    missingFieldsHintText = "Please add this field"
    standbyHintText = "No label detected, camera paused"
    validationHintText = "fields captured" // X/Y (X fields out of total Y) is  shown in front of this string
    validationErrorText = "Input not valid"
    requiredFieldErrorText = "This field is required"
    manualInputButtonText = "Add info manually"
}

// Apply the settings to the overlay
validationFlowOverlay?.applySettings(validationSettings)
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Configure the validation flow with custom settings
LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings validationSettings = LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings.newInstance();

validationSettings.setMissingFieldsHintText("Please add this field");
validationSettings.setStandbyHintText("No label detected, camera paused");
validationSettings.setValidationHintText("fields captured"); // X/Y (X fields out of total Y) is shown in front of this string
validationSettings.setValidationErrorText("Input not valid");
validationSettings.setRequiredFieldErrorText("This field is required");
validationSettings.setManualInputButtonText("Add info manually");

// Apply the settings to the overlay
if (validationFlowOverlay != null) {
    validationFlowOverlay.applySettings(validationSettings);
}

```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Define a Listener

To handle validation events, implement the [LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-validation-flow-listener.html) interface.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// This is called by the validation flow overlay when a label has been fully captured and validated
override fun onValidationFlowLabelCaptured(fields: List<LabelField>) {
    
    val barcodeData = fields.find { it.name == "<your-barcode-field-name>" }?.barcode?.data
        
    val expiryDate = fields.find { it.name == "<your-expiry-date-field-name>" }?.text
}
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// This is called by the validation flow overlay when a label has been fully captured and validated
@Override
public void onValidationFlowLabelCaptured(@NonNull List<LabelField> fields) {
    
    String barcodeData = null;
    for (LabelField field : fields) {
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-barcode-field-name>")) {
            barcodeData = field.getBarcode().getData();
        } else if (field.getName().equals("<your-expiry-date-field-name>")) {
            String expiryDate = field.getText();
        }
    }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/android/label-capture/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "Guide to customizing overlays in the Scandit Android Label Capture SDK."
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Advanced Configurations

## Customization of the Overlays

### Basic Overlay

To customize the appearance of an overlay you can implement a [LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener) and/or [LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-advanced-overlay-listener.html) interface, depending on the overlay(s) you are using.

The method [brushForLabel()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForLabel) is called every time a label is captured, and [brushForField()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForField) is called for each of its fields to determine the brush for the label or field.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
overlay.listener = object : LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener {
    /*
     * Customize the appearance of the overlay for the individual fields.
     */
    override fun brushForField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        field: LabelField,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ): Brush? = when (field.name) {
        "<your-barcode-field-name>" -> Brush(Color.CYAN.withAlpha(128), Color.CYAN, 1f)
        "<your-expiry-date-field-name>" -> Brush(Color.GREEN.withAlpha(128), Color.GREEN, 1f)
        else -> Brush(Color.TRANSPARENT, Color.TRANSPARENT, 0f)
    }

    /*
     * Customize the appearance of the overlay for the full label.
     * In this example, we disable label overlays by returning null always.
     */
    override fun brushForLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ): Brush? = null

    override fun onLabelTapped(
        overlay: LabelCaptureBasicOverlay,
        label: CapturedLabel
    ) { 
        /*
         * Handle the user tap gesture on the label.
         */
    }
}

```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
overlay.setListener(new LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener() {
    @Nullable
    @Override
    public Brush brushForLabel(
        @NonNull LabelCaptureBasicOverlay overlay, @NonNull CapturedLabel label) {
        return null;
    }

    @Override
    public Brush brushForField(@NonNull LabelCaptureBasicOverlay overlay,
                               @NonNull CapturedField field, @NonNull CapturedLabel label) {
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-barcode-field-name>")) {
            return new Brush(
              getResources().getColor(R.color.barcode_overlay_fill),
              getResources().getColor(R.color.barcode_overlay_stroke), 
              0f
            );
        } 
        
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-expiry-date-field-name>")) {
            return new Brush(
              getResources().getColor(R.color.expiry_date_overlay_fill),
              getResources().getColor(R.color.expiry_date_overlay_stroke), 
              0f
            );
        } 
        
        return null;
    }
});
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip
You can also use `LabelCaptureBasicOverlay.setLabelBrush()` and `LabelCaptureBasicOverlay.setCapturedFieldBrush()` to configure the overlay if you don't need to customize the appearance based on the name or content of the fields.
:::

### Advanced Overlay

For more advanced use cases, such as adding custom views or implementing Augmented Reality (AR) features, you can use the `LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay`. The example below creates an advanced overlay, configuring it to display a styled warning message below expiry date fields when they’re close to expiring, while ignoring other fields.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Create an advanced overlay that allows for custom views to be added over detected label fields
// This is the key component for implementing Augmented Reality features
val advancedOverlay = LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay.newInstance(dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(), view)

// Configure the advanced overlay with a listener that handles AR content creation and positioning
advancedOverlay.listener = object : LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener {
    
    // This method is called when a label is detected - we return null since we're only adding AR elements to specific fields, not the entire label
    override fun viewForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel
    ): View? = null

    // This defines where on the detected label the AR view would be anchored 
    override fun anchorForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel
    ): Anchor = Anchor.CENTER

    // This defines the offset from the anchor point for the label's AR view
    override fun offsetForCapturedLabel(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        capturedLabel: CapturedLabel,
        view: View
    ): PointWithUnit = PointWithUnit(0f, 0f, MeasureUnit.PIXEL)

    // This method is called when a field is detected in a label
    override fun viewForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField
    ): View? {
        // We only want to create AR elements for expiry date fields that are text-based
        if (labelField.name.contains("expiry", ignoreCase = true) && labelField.type == LabelFieldType.TEXT) {
        
            //
            // data extraction from expiry date field and days until expiry date calculation
            //
            
            // Check if scanned expiry date is to close to actual date
            if (daysUntilExpiry < dayLimit) {
            
                // Create and configure the AR element - a TextView with appropriate styling
                // This view will appear as an overlay on the camera feed
                return TextView(context).apply {
                
                    text = "Item expires soon!"
                    setTextColor(Color.WHITE)
                    setBackgroundColor(Color.RED)
                    setPadding(16, 8, 16, 8)
                    
                    // Add an icon to the left of the text for visual guidance
                    // This enhances the AR experience by providing clear visual cues
                    val drawable = ContextCompat.getDrawable(context, R.drawable.ic_warning)
                    drawable?.setBounds(0, 0, drawable.intrinsicWidth, drawable.intrinsicHeight)
                    setCompoundDrawables(drawable, null, null, null)
                    compoundDrawablePadding = 16 // Add some padding between icon and text
                }
            }
        }
        // Return null for any fields that aren't expiry dates, which means no AR overlay
        return null
    }
    
    // This defines where on the detected field the AR view should be anchored
    // BOTTOM_CENTER places it right below the expiry date text for better visibility
    override fun anchorForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField
    ): Anchor = Anchor.BOTTOM_CENTER

    // This defines the offset from the anchor point
    override fun offsetForCapturedLabelField(
        overlay: LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay,
        labelField: LabelField,
        view: View
    ): PointWithUnit = PointWithUnit(0f, 22f, MeasureUnit.DIP)
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Create an advanced overlay that allows for custom views to be added over detected label fields
// This is the key component for implementing Augmented Reality features
LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay advancedOverlay = LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay.newInstance(
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(), view);

// Configure the advanced overlay with a listener that handles AR content creation and positioning
advancedOverlay.setListener(new LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlayListener() {

    @Nullable
    @Override
    public View viewForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                     @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel) {
        // We return null since we're only adding AR elements to specific fields, not the entire label
        return null;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public Anchor anchorForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                         @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel) {
        // This defines where on the detected label the AR view would be anchored
        return Anchor.CENTER;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public PointWithUnit offsetForCapturedLabel(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                                @NonNull CapturedLabel capturedLabel,
                                                @NonNull View view) {
        // This defines the offset from the anchor point for the label's AR view
        return new PointWithUnit(0f, 0f, MeasureUnit.PIXEL);
    }

    @Nullable
    @Override
    public View viewForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                          @NonNull LabelField labelField) {
        // We only want to create AR elements for expiry date fields that are text-based
        if (labelField.getName().toLowerCase().contains("expiry") &&
            labelField.getType() == LabelFieldType.TEXT) {

            //
            // data extraction from expiry date field and days until expiry date calculation
            //

            // Assume we have a method `daysUntilExpiry()` that returns the days left until expiry
            int daysUntilExpiry = daysUntilExpiry(labelField.getValue());
            int dayLimit = 3; // Example threshold

            if (daysUntilExpiry < dayLimit) {
                // Create and configure the AR element - a TextView with appropriate styling
                // This view will appear as an overlay on the camera feed
                TextView textView = new TextView(context);
                textView.setText("Item expires soon!");
                textView.setTextColor(Color.WHITE);
                textView.setBackgroundColor(Color.RED);
                textView.setPadding(16, 8, 16, 8);

                // Add an icon to the left of the text for visual guidance
                Drawable drawable = ContextCompat.getDrawable(context, R.drawable.ic_warning);
                if (drawable != null) {
                    drawable.setBounds(0, 0, drawable.getIntrinsicWidth(), drawable.getIntrinsicHeight());
                    textView.setCompoundDrawables(drawable, null, null, null);
                }
                textView.setCompoundDrawablePadding(16); // Padding between icon and text

                return textView;
            }
        }
        // Return null for any fields that aren't expiry dates, which means no AR overlay
        return null;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public Anchor anchorForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                              @NonNull LabelField labelField) {
        // BOTTOM_CENTER places it right below the expiry date text for better visibility
        return Anchor.BOTTOM_CENTER;
    }

    @NonNull
    @Override
    public PointWithUnit offsetForCapturedLabelField(@NonNull LabelCaptureAdvancedOverlay overlay,
                                                     @NonNull LabelField labelField,
                                                     @NonNull View view) {
        // This defines the offset from the anchor point
        return new PointWithUnit(0f, 22f, MeasureUnit.DIP);
    }
});
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Validation Flow

Implementing a validation flow in your Smart Label Capture application differs from the [Get Started](/sdks/android/label-capture/get-started.md) steps outlined earlier as follows:

### Visualize the Scan Process

Validation flow uses a different overlay, the [LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-validation-flow-overlay.html). This overlay provides a user interface that guides users through the label capture process, including validation steps.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Create the overlay
validationFlowOverlay = LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay.newInstance(
    requireContext(),
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(),
    view
)

// Set the listener to receive validation events
validationFlowOverlay?.listener = this
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Create the overlay
validationFlowOverlay = LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlay.newInstance(
    getContext(),
    dataCaptureManager.getLabelCapture(),
    view
);
// Set the listener to receive validation events
validationFlowOverlay.setListener(this);
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Adjust the Hint Messages

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// Configure the validation flow with custom settings
val validationSettings = LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings.newInstance()
validationSettings.apply {
    missingFieldsHintText = "Please add this field"
    standbyHintText = "No label detected, camera paused"
    validationHintText = "fields captured" // X/Y (X fields out of total Y) is  shown in front of this string
    validationErrorText = "Input not valid"
    requiredFieldErrorText = "This field is required"
    manualInputButtonText = "Add info manually"
}

// Apply the settings to the overlay
validationFlowOverlay?.applySettings(validationSettings)
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// Configure the validation flow with custom settings
LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings validationSettings = LabelCaptureValidationFlowSettings.newInstance();

validationSettings.setMissingFieldsHintText("Please add this field");
validationSettings.setStandbyHintText("No label detected, camera paused");
validationSettings.setValidationHintText("fields captured"); // X/Y (X fields out of total Y) is shown in front of this string
validationSettings.setValidationErrorText("Input not valid");
validationSettings.setRequiredFieldErrorText("This field is required");
validationSettings.setManualInputButtonText("Add info manually");

// Apply the settings to the overlay
if (validationFlowOverlay != null) {
    validationFlowOverlay.applySettings(validationSettings);
}

```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Define a Listener

To handle validation events, implement the [LabelCaptureValidationFlowOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-validation-flow-listener.html) interface.

<Tabs groupId="language">
<TabItem value="kotlin" label="Kotlin">

```kotlin
// This is called by the validation flow overlay when a label has been fully captured and validated
override fun onValidationFlowLabelCaptured(fields: List<LabelField>) {
    
    val barcodeData = fields.find { it.name == "<your-barcode-field-name>" }?.barcode?.data
        
    val expiryDate = fields.find { it.name == "<your-expiry-date-field-name>" }?.text
}
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java" label="Java">

```java
// This is called by the validation flow overlay when a label has been fully captured and validated
@Override
public void onValidationFlowLabelCaptured(@NonNull List<LabelField> fields) {
    
    String barcodeData = null;
    for (LabelField field : fields) {
        if (field.getName().equals("<your-barcode-field-name>")) {
            barcodeData = field.getBarcode().getData();
        } else if (field.getName().equals("<your-expiry-date-field-name>")) {
            String expiryDate = field.getText();
        }
    }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
