docs/sdks/react-native/barcode-selection/intro.md, before:

---
description: "Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenarios where there are multiple barcodes present, such as a crowded shelf, an order catalog with barcodes printed closely together, or a label with multiple barcodes.                                                         "

sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# About Barcode Selection

Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenarios where there are multiple barcodes present, such as a crowded shelf, an order catalog with barcodes printed closely together, or a label with multiple barcodes.

Barcode Selection provides two key capabilities:

- **Aim to Select** allows users to select one code at a time. This is especially useful for one-handed operation.
- **Tap to Select** is a quick way for users to select several codes from the same view. Selection is done by tapping on highlighted barcodes in the live camera preview or on a frozen screen.

:::warning
Barcode Selection does not support handling of duplicate codes. If a code appears twice in the visible preview both instances will be marked as selected even if only one of them was selected.
:::

Commit message:

Restore barcode-selection in sidebar and add deprecation warnings
- Restored barcode-selection links in sidebar navigation for supported frameworks (iOS, Android, Cordova, React Native, Flutter, Capacitor, .NET iOS, .NET Android)
- Moved barcode-selection under "Single Scanning" category for better organization
- Added deprecation warnings to all barcode-selection intro and get-started pages recommending SparkScan or Barcode Capture API instead
- Excluded barcode-selection from Web, Titanium, and Linux sidebars as these frameworks don't support it

docs/sdks/react-native/barcode-selection/intro.md, after:

---
description: "Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenarios where there are multiple barcodes present, such as a crowded shelf, an order catalog with barcodes printed closely together, or a label with multiple barcodes.                                                         "

sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# About Barcode Selection

:::warning
We recommend using **SparkScan** or **Barcode Capture API** instead of Barcode Selection. With the new smart features, barcode selection in crowded environments is done without the need of a dedicated API. This API will be deprecated.
:::

Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenarios where there are multiple barcodes present, such as a crowded shelf, an order catalog with barcodes printed closely together, or a label with multiple barcodes.

Barcode Selection provides two key capabilities:

- **Aim to Select** allows users to select one code at a time. This is especially useful for one-handed operation.
- **Tap to Select** is a quick way for users to select several codes from the same view. Selection is done by tapping on highlighted barcodes in the live camera preview or on a frozen screen.

:::warning
Barcode Selection does not support handling of duplicate codes. If a code appears twice in the visible preview both instances will be marked as selected even if only one of them was selected.
:::
