docs/hosted/id-bolt/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Advanced Options'
title: 'Advanced Options'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - advanced
  - options
---

# Advanced Options

This page covers advanced features and options for ID Bolt that help optimize performance and handle specific use cases.

## Keep Alive

When running ID Bolt multiple times in sequence (such as scanning multiple passports in a batch), you can improve performance by keeping resources alive between sessions:

```ts
// first scan
let idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  keepAliveForNextSession: true
});

// second scan

idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  keepAliveForNextSession: true
});

// more scans...

// When finished with all scans
IdBoltSession.terminate();
```

### Benefits

- Faster loading times for subsequent scans
- No need to request camera permissions again
- Reduced resource initialization overhead

### Important Notes

- Always call `IdBoltSession.terminate()` when done with all scans to release resources
- This feature is most beneficial when scanning multiple IDs in quick succession

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/id-bolt/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "This page covers advanced features and options for ID Bolt that help optimize performance and handle specific use cases.                                                                                 "

sidebar_label: 'Advanced Options'
title: 'Advanced Options'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - advanced
  - options
---

# Advanced Options

This page covers advanced features and options for ID Bolt that help optimize performance and handle specific use cases.

## Keep Alive

When running ID Bolt multiple times in sequence (such as scanning multiple passports in a batch), you can improve performance by keeping resources alive between sessions:

```ts
// first scan
let idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  keepAliveForNextSession: true
});

// second scan

idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  keepAliveForNextSession: true
});

// more scans...

// When finished with all scans
IdBoltSession.terminate();
```

### Benefits

- Faster loading times for subsequent scans
- No need to request camera permissions again
- Reduced resource initialization overhead

### Important Notes

- Always call `IdBoltSession.terminate()` when done with all scans to release resources
- This feature is most beneficial when scanning multiple IDs in quick succession
