docs/hosted/id-bolt/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Overview'
title: 'ID Bolt'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
---

ID Bolt is a cloud-based identity scanning solution that enables you to provide customers a fast, foolproof ID scanning in just 1 second, leading to an improved customer experience as well as compliance. It works on-device, via desktop and mobile in a unified solution, ensuring no identity information is collected by third-party servers and reduces latency for quick scanning performance.

:::tip
In addition to ID Bolt, Scandit provides an [ID Capture SDK for the Web](/sdks/web/id-capture/intro.md) that allows full flexibility around the user interface and user flow. 
:::

## Features

ID Bolt offers the following features:

* **Fast Scanning**: ID Bolt scans an ID in just 1 second, ensuring a quick and seamless customer experience. Scans are performed from video streams for the fastest possible scanning.
* **On-Device Scanning/Processing**: ID Bolt scans IDs on-device, ensuring no identity information is collected by third-party servers, and handling all processing on the device for improved performance.
* **Device Handover**: ID Bolt works on both desktop and mobile devices, providing a unified solution. Desktop/laptop users can scan IDs using their mobile device camera.
* **Industry Leading UX**: ID Bolt provides a seamless user experience with a simple and intuitive interface, designed based on the millions of scans performed by Scandit customers each year.
* **Compliance**: ID Bolt ensures compliance with data protection regulations, such as GDPR, by processing all data on-device and not collecting any identity information on third-party servers.
* **White-Label Solution**: ID Bolt can be placed behind your own domain, allowing you to maintain brand consistency and provide a seamless, integrated experience to your customers while leveraging Scandit's powerful ID scanning capabilities.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/id-bolt/overview.md, after:

---
description: "ID Bolt is a cloud-based identity scanning solution that enables you to provide customers a fast, foolproof ID scanning in just 1 second, leading to an improved customer experience as well as compliance. It works on-device, via desktop and mobile in a unified solution, ensuring no identity information is collected by third-party servers and reduces latency for quick scanning performance.                                        "

sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Overview'
title: 'ID Bolt'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
---

ID Bolt is a cloud-based identity scanning solution that enables you to provide customers a fast, foolproof ID scanning in just 1 second, leading to an improved customer experience as well as compliance. It works on-device, via desktop and mobile in a unified solution, ensuring no identity information is collected by third-party servers and reduces latency for quick scanning performance.

:::tip
In addition to ID Bolt, Scandit provides an [ID Capture SDK for the Web](/sdks/web/id-capture/intro.md) that allows full flexibility around the user interface and user flow. 
:::

## Features

ID Bolt offers the following features:

* **Fast Scanning**: ID Bolt scans an ID in just 1 second, ensuring a quick and seamless customer experience. Scans are performed from video streams for the fastest possible scanning.
* **On-Device Scanning/Processing**: ID Bolt scans IDs on-device, ensuring no identity information is collected by third-party servers, and handling all processing on the device for improved performance.
* **Device Handover**: ID Bolt works on both desktop and mobile devices, providing a unified solution. Desktop/laptop users can scan IDs using their mobile device camera.
* **Industry Leading UX**: ID Bolt provides a seamless user experience with a simple and intuitive interface, designed based on the millions of scans performed by Scandit customers each year.
* **Compliance**: ID Bolt ensures compliance with data protection regulations, such as GDPR, by processing all data on-device and not collecting any identity information on third-party servers.
* **White-Label Solution**: ID Bolt can be placed behind your own domain, allowing you to maintain brand consistency and provide a seamless, integrated experience to your customers while leveraging Scandit's powerful ID scanning capabilities.
