docs/hosted/id-bolt/theming.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Theming'
title: 'Theming'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - theming
  - customization
---

# Theming

ID Bolt allows comprehensive customization of its visual appearance to match your brand identity. Use the `theme` option when creating an ID Bolt session to customize colors, dimensions, and other visual elements.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  theme: {
    colors: {
      primary: "#0070f3",
      background: "#ffffff"
    },
    dimensions: {
      radiusButton: "8px"
    }
  }
});
```

## Color Customization

The `colors` object allows you to define colors for various UI elements:

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `primary` | `string` | Primary color used throughout the interface |
| `image` | `string` | Color used for image-related elements |
| `background` | `string` | Main popup background color |
| `backgroundSecondary` | `string` | Secondary background color for surfaces |
| `backgroundInverse` | `string` | Inverse background color |
| `backgroundScannerPlaceholder` | `string` | Background color for scanner placeholder |
| `textPrimary` | `string` | Primary text color |
| `textSecondary` | `string` | Secondary text color |
| `textTertiary` | `string` | Tertiary text color |
| `textInverse` | `string` | Inverse text color |
| `textScannerPlaceholder` | `string` | Text color for scanner placeholder |
| `success` | `string` | Color for success states |
| `error` | `string` | Color for error states |
| `warning` | `string` | Color for warning states |
| `info` | `string` | Color for informational states |
| `buttonBackground` | `string` | Background color for buttons |
| `buttonText` | `string` | Text color for buttons |
| `buttonBorder` | `string` | Border color for buttons |
| `buttonBackgroundDisabled` | `string` | Background color for disabled buttons |
| `buttonBorderDisabled` | `string` | Border color for disabled buttons |
| `buttonTextDisabled` | `string` | Text color for disabled buttons |
| `connectionStatusConnectingBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in connecting/waiting state |
| `connectionStatusConnectingText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in connecting/waiting state |
| `connectionStatusSuccessBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in success state |
| `connectionStatusSuccessText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in success state |
| `connectionStatusErrorBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in error/failed state |
| `connectionStatusErrorText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in error/failed state |
| `headerButtons` | `string` | Color for the header back and close buttons (when not in their white variant) |
| `divider` | `string` | Color for divider lines, such as the one on the QR code page |

## Dimension Customization

The `dimensions` object allows you to customize sizes and spacing:

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `radiusPopup` | `string` | Border radius for the popup |
| `radiusButton` | `string` | Border radius for buttons |
| `radiusCard` | `string` | Border radius for cards |

All values are string and must be valid CSS dimension expressions. E.g. "12px".

## Image Customization

The `images` object allows you to customize the images used in key screens:

```ts
const theme = {
  images: {
    welcome: "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAA...",
    flowCompleted: "data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0i...",
    acceptedId: "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAQAA..."
  }
};
```

### Image Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `welcome` | `string` |  Image displayed on the welcome screen, both on Desktop as well as hand-over |
| `flowCompleted` | `string` | Image displayed on the completion screen in hand-over flow |
| `acceptedId` | `string` | Image displayed as a placeholder for an accepted image, when picture is not captured |

### Image Requirements

- Format: PNG, JPEG, SVG, or WebP (must be provided as data URLs with appropriate mime types)
- Maximum size: 50KB per image (size of the base64 data URL)
- Data URL format: Must start with one of the following prefixes:
  - `data:image/png`
  - `data:image/jpeg`
  - `data:image/svg+xml`
  - `data:image/webp`

## Font Customization

The `fonts` object allows you to customize the fonts used in the interface:

```ts
const theme = {
  fonts: {
    primary: {
      normal: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAT...",
      semibold: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAU...",
      bold: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAV..."
    }
  }
};
```

### Font Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `primary.normal` | `string` | Regular font weight (400) |
| `primary.semibold` | `string` | Semi-bold font weight (600) |
| `primary.bold` | `string` | Bold font weight (700) |

### Font Requirements

- Format: WOFF2, WOFF, TTF, or OTF (must be provided as data URLs)
- Maximum size: 100KB per font file (size of the base64 data url)
- Data URL format: Must start with appropriate mime type prefixes (e.g., `data:font/woff2`, `data:font/woff`)

## Style Overrides

The `styleOverrides` object allows you to apply custom CSS to specific UI elements:

```ts
const theme = {
  styleOverrides: {
    button: `
      .bolt-button {
        display: block;
        width: 100%;
        padding: 12px 24px;
        background-color: #fcb700;
        color: #000000;
        text-align: center;
        font-weight: bold;
        font-size: 16px;
        line-height: 1.5;
        text-decoration: none;
        border: none;
        cursor: pointer;
        box-sizing: border-box;
        border-radius: 0;
        box-shadow: none;
        transition: background-color 0.2s ease-in-out;
      }

      .bolt-button:hover,
      .bolt-button:focus {
        background-color: #e0a800;
        outline: none;
      }
    `,
    link: `
      .bolt-link {
        text-decoration: none;
        border-bottom: 1px dotted currentColor;
      }
      .bolt-link:hover {
        border-bottom: 1px solid currentColor;
      }
    `,
    title: `
      .bolt-title {
        text-transform: uppercase;
        letter-spacing: 0.05em;
      }
    `
  }
};
```

### Available Style Override Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `button` | `string` | CSS styles for buttons |
| `link` | `string` | CSS styles for links |
| `title` | `string` | CSS styles for titles |

#### CSS class names

Use the `.bolt-button`, `.bolt-link` and `.bolt-title` selectors for the styling rule. You can also create additional rules for pseudo-states like `.bolt-button:hover` etc. 
When a style override is specified, the element is rendered in its own shadow-DOM, with the provided style sheet attached. 

The element will have many more CSS classes attached, but since it is rendered in a shadow DOM, these don't have an effect, unless you choose to use them in the style-override.

#### Shadow DOM

When a style override is specified, the component is rendered in a shadow DOM. This means that none of the default styles of ID-Bolt apply to the component anymore. Therefore, make sure to specify all relevant styles.

#### Used HTML elements

Not all buttons use the `<button>` HTML element. Certain buttons in the UI are `<a>` links stylized as a button. Therefore, make sure to also add `display: flex` or `display: block`, as well as rules such as `text-decoration` to your style sheet. 

:::tip
Always make sure to thoroughly test the full ID-Bolt flow when you customize the styles, to make sure the result is as expected on all screens. 
:::

## Popup Container Customization

You can apply additional styling to the ID Bolt popup container directly from your application's CSS. This is particularly useful for customizing the popup's outer appearance like adding a box shadow:

```css
/* In your application's CSS */
idbolt-pop-up::part(container) {
	box-shadow: 0 0 20px 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
}
```

Note that this approach only affects the popup container itself and not elements inside the popup. For customizing the internal elements, use the Theme API described above.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/id-bolt/theming.md, after:

---
description: "ID Bolt allows comprehensive customization of its visual appearance to match your brand identity. Use the `theme` option when creating an ID Bolt session to customize colors, dimensions, and other visual elements.                                                                    "

sidebar_label: 'Theming'
title: 'Theming'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - theming
  - customization
---

# Theming

ID Bolt allows comprehensive customization of its visual appearance to match your brand identity. Use the `theme` option when creating an ID Bolt session to customize colors, dimensions, and other visual elements.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  theme: {
    colors: {
      primary: "#0070f3",
      background: "#ffffff"
    },
    dimensions: {
      radiusButton: "8px"
    }
  }
});
```

## Color Customization

The `colors` object allows you to define colors for various UI elements:

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `primary` | `string` | Primary color used throughout the interface |
| `image` | `string` | Color used for image-related elements |
| `background` | `string` | Main popup background color |
| `backgroundSecondary` | `string` | Secondary background color for surfaces |
| `backgroundInverse` | `string` | Inverse background color |
| `backgroundScannerPlaceholder` | `string` | Background color for scanner placeholder |
| `textPrimary` | `string` | Primary text color |
| `textSecondary` | `string` | Secondary text color |
| `textTertiary` | `string` | Tertiary text color |
| `textInverse` | `string` | Inverse text color |
| `textScannerPlaceholder` | `string` | Text color for scanner placeholder |
| `success` | `string` | Color for success states |
| `error` | `string` | Color for error states |
| `warning` | `string` | Color for warning states |
| `info` | `string` | Color for informational states |
| `buttonBackground` | `string` | Background color for buttons |
| `buttonText` | `string` | Text color for buttons |
| `buttonBorder` | `string` | Border color for buttons |
| `buttonBackgroundDisabled` | `string` | Background color for disabled buttons |
| `buttonBorderDisabled` | `string` | Border color for disabled buttons |
| `buttonTextDisabled` | `string` | Text color for disabled buttons |
| `connectionStatusConnectingBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in connecting/waiting state |
| `connectionStatusConnectingText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in connecting/waiting state |
| `connectionStatusSuccessBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in success state |
| `connectionStatusSuccessText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in success state |
| `connectionStatusErrorBackground` | `string` | Background color for connection status pills in error/failed state |
| `connectionStatusErrorText` | `string` | Text color for connection status pills in error/failed state |
| `headerButtons` | `string` | Color for the header back and close buttons (when not in their white variant) |
| `divider` | `string` | Color for divider lines, such as the one on the QR code page |

## Dimension Customization

The `dimensions` object allows you to customize sizes and spacing:

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `radiusPopup` | `string` | Border radius for the popup |
| `radiusButton` | `string` | Border radius for buttons |
| `radiusCard` | `string` | Border radius for cards |

All values are string and must be valid CSS dimension expressions. E.g. "12px".

## Image Customization

The `images` object allows you to customize the images used in key screens:

```ts
const theme = {
  images: {
    welcome: "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAA...",
    flowCompleted: "data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0i...",
    acceptedId: "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAQAA..."
  }
};
```

### Image Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `welcome` | `string` |  Image displayed on the welcome screen, both on Desktop as well as hand-over |
| `flowCompleted` | `string` | Image displayed on the completion screen in hand-over flow |
| `acceptedId` | `string` | Image displayed as a placeholder for an accepted image, when picture is not captured |

### Image Requirements

- Format: PNG, JPEG, SVG, or WebP (must be provided as data URLs with appropriate mime types)
- Maximum size: 50KB per image (size of the base64 data URL)
- Data URL format: Must start with one of the following prefixes:
  - `data:image/png`
  - `data:image/jpeg`
  - `data:image/svg+xml`
  - `data:image/webp`

## Font Customization

The `fonts` object allows you to customize the fonts used in the interface:

```ts
const theme = {
  fonts: {
    primary: {
      normal: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAT...",
      semibold: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAU...",
      bold: "data:font/woff2;base64,d09GMgABAAAAAAV..."
    }
  }
};
```

### Font Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `primary.normal` | `string` | Regular font weight (400) |
| `primary.semibold` | `string` | Semi-bold font weight (600) |
| `primary.bold` | `string` | Bold font weight (700) |

### Font Requirements

- Format: WOFF2, WOFF, TTF, or OTF (must be provided as data URLs)
- Maximum size: 100KB per font file (size of the base64 data url)
- Data URL format: Must start with appropriate mime type prefixes (e.g., `data:font/woff2`, `data:font/woff`)

## Style Overrides

The `styleOverrides` object allows you to apply custom CSS to specific UI elements:

```ts
const theme = {
  styleOverrides: {
    button: `
      .bolt-button {
        display: block;
        width: 100%;
        padding: 12px 24px;
        background-color: #fcb700;
        color: #000000;
        text-align: center;
        font-weight: bold;
        font-size: 16px;
        line-height: 1.5;
        text-decoration: none;
        border: none;
        cursor: pointer;
        box-sizing: border-box;
        border-radius: 0;
        box-shadow: none;
        transition: background-color 0.2s ease-in-out;
      }

      .bolt-button:hover,
      .bolt-button:focus {
        background-color: #e0a800;
        outline: none;
      }
    `,
    link: `
      .bolt-link {
        text-decoration: none;
        border-bottom: 1px dotted currentColor;
      }
      .bolt-link:hover {
        border-bottom: 1px solid currentColor;
      }
    `,
    title: `
      .bolt-title {
        text-transform: uppercase;
        letter-spacing: 0.05em;
      }
    `
  }
};
```

### Available Style Override Properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `button` | `string` | CSS styles for buttons |
| `link` | `string` | CSS styles for links |
| `title` | `string` | CSS styles for titles |

#### CSS class names

Use the `.bolt-button`, `.bolt-link` and `.bolt-title` selectors for the styling rule. You can also create additional rules for pseudo-states like `.bolt-button:hover` etc. 
When a style override is specified, the element is rendered in its own shadow-DOM, with the provided style sheet attached. 

The element will have many more CSS classes attached, but since it is rendered in a shadow DOM, these don't have an effect, unless you choose to use them in the style-override.

#### Shadow DOM

When a style override is specified, the component is rendered in a shadow DOM. This means that none of the default styles of ID-Bolt apply to the component anymore. Therefore, make sure to specify all relevant styles.

#### Used HTML elements

Not all buttons use the `<button>` HTML element. Certain buttons in the UI are `<a>` links stylized as a button. Therefore, make sure to also add `display: flex` or `display: block`, as well as rules such as `text-decoration` to your style sheet. 

:::tip
Always make sure to thoroughly test the full ID-Bolt flow when you customize the styles, to make sure the result is as expected on all screens. 
:::

## Popup Container Customization

You can apply additional styling to the ID Bolt popup container directly from your application's CSS. This is particularly useful for customizing the popup's outer appearance like adding a box shadow:

```css
/* In your application's CSS */
idbolt-pop-up::part(container) {
	box-shadow: 0 0 20px 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
}
```

Note that this approach only affects the popup container itself and not elements inside the popup. For customizing the internal elements, use the Theme API described above.
