docs/hosted/id-bolt/workflow.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Workflow Options'
title: 'Workflow & Scanner Options'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - workflow
  - scanner
---

# Workflow & Scanner Options

ID Bolt allows you to customize both the user interface flow and the scanning behavior to meet your specific requirements.

## Workflow Options

The `workflow` option allows you to customize the user interface flow:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  workflow: {
    showWelcomeScreen: true,
    showResultScreen: true
  }
});
```

### Available Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `showWelcomeScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | When enabled: Always shown on both desktop and mobile. When disabled: Only shown on desktop to allow users to select between scanning on local device or handing over. |
| `showResultScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | Determines whether to show the result screen at the end of the workflow. |

### Example:

Do not show the result screen:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  workflow: {
    showResultScreen: false
  }
});
```

## Scanner Options

The scanner behavior can be customized using the `scanner` option. First, import the scanner classes:

```ts
import {
  IdBoltSession,
  SingleSideScanner,
  FullDocumentScanner
} from "@scandit/web-id-bolt";
```

By default, ID Bolt uses a `SingleSideScanner` with all modalities enabled, but you can choose different scanner types and configure their behavior.

### Single Side Scanner

The `SingleSideScanner` extracts all data from a single side scan of the document. This is the default scanner type.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  scanner: new SingleSideScanner(
    true, // Enable reading of barcode ID-documents
    true, // Enable reading of machine readable zone (MRZ) documents
    true  // Enable reading of visual inspection zone (VIZ) documents
  )
});
```

#### Customizing Scanning Modalities

You can enable or disable specific scanning modalities:

```ts
// Only scan MRZ documents (like passports)
const mrzOnlyScanner = new SingleSideScanner(
  false, // Disable barcode reading
  true,  // Enable MRZ reading
  false  // Disable VIZ reading
);

// Only scan barcode documents (like some driver licenses)
const barcodeOnlyScanner = new SingleSideScanner(
  true,  // Enable barcode reading
  false, // Disable MRZ reading
  false  // Disable VIZ reading
);
```

### Full Document Scanner

The `FullDocumentScanner` forces the user to scan both the front and back sides of the document, which can provide more complete data extraction, especially for multi-sided documents like ID cards or driver licenses.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  scanner: new FullDocumentScanner()
});
```

The `FullDocumentScanner` automatically enables all scanning modalities (barcode, MRZ, and VIZ).


## Complete Workflow Configuration Example

Here's an example that combines various workflow and scanner options:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  licenseKey: LICENSE_KEY,
  documentSelection: DocumentSelection.create({
    accepted: [new Passport(Region.Any), new IDCard(Region.Any)]
  }),
  returnDataMode: ReturnDataMode.Full,
  // Configure scanner to only use MRZ reading (good for e.g. passports)
  scanner: new SingleSideScanner(false, true, false),
  // skip result screen
  workflow: {
    showResultScreen: false
  },
  onCompletion: (result) => {
    console.log("Successfully completed workflow", result);
  }
});

await idBoltSession.start();
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/id-bolt/workflow.md, after:

---
description: "ID Bolt allows you to customize both the user interface flow and the scanning behavior to meet your specific requirements.                                                                                "

sidebar_label: 'Workflow Options'
title: 'Workflow & Scanner Options'
displayed_sidebar: boltSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 4
framework: bolt
tags: [bolt]
keywords:
  - bolt
  - workflow
  - scanner
---

# Workflow & Scanner Options

ID Bolt allows you to customize both the user interface flow and the scanning behavior to meet your specific requirements.

## Workflow Options

The `workflow` option allows you to customize the user interface flow:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  workflow: {
    showWelcomeScreen: true,
    showResultScreen: true
  }
});
```

### Available Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `showWelcomeScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | When enabled: Always shown on both desktop and mobile. When disabled: Only shown on desktop to allow users to select between scanning on local device or handing over. |
| `showResultScreen` | `boolean` | `true` | Determines whether to show the result screen at the end of the workflow. |

### Example:

Do not show the result screen:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  workflow: {
    showResultScreen: false
  }
});
```

## Scanner Options

The scanner behavior can be customized using the `scanner` option. First, import the scanner classes:

```ts
import {
  IdBoltSession,
  SingleSideScanner,
  FullDocumentScanner
} from "@scandit/web-id-bolt";
```

By default, ID Bolt uses a `SingleSideScanner` with all modalities enabled, but you can choose different scanner types and configure their behavior.

### Single Side Scanner

The `SingleSideScanner` extracts all data from a single side scan of the document. This is the default scanner type.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  scanner: new SingleSideScanner(
    true, // Enable reading of barcode ID-documents
    true, // Enable reading of machine readable zone (MRZ) documents
    true  // Enable reading of visual inspection zone (VIZ) documents
  )
});
```

#### Customizing Scanning Modalities

You can enable or disable specific scanning modalities:

```ts
// Only scan MRZ documents (like passports)
const mrzOnlyScanner = new SingleSideScanner(
  false, // Disable barcode reading
  true,  // Enable MRZ reading
  false  // Disable VIZ reading
);

// Only scan barcode documents (like some driver licenses)
const barcodeOnlyScanner = new SingleSideScanner(
  true,  // Enable barcode reading
  false, // Disable MRZ reading
  false  // Disable VIZ reading
);
```

### Full Document Scanner

The `FullDocumentScanner` forces the user to scan both the front and back sides of the document, which can provide more complete data extraction, especially for multi-sided documents like ID cards or driver licenses.

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  // other options...
  scanner: new FullDocumentScanner()
});
```

The `FullDocumentScanner` automatically enables all scanning modalities (barcode, MRZ, and VIZ).


## Complete Workflow Configuration Example

Here's an example that combines various workflow and scanner options:

```ts
const idBoltSession = IdBoltSession.create(ID_BOLT_URL, {
  licenseKey: LICENSE_KEY,
  documentSelection: DocumentSelection.create({
    accepted: [new Passport(Region.Any), new IDCard(Region.Any)]
  }),
  returnDataMode: ReturnDataMode.Full,
  // Configure scanner to only use MRZ reading (good for e.g. passports)
  scanner: new SingleSideScanner(false, true, false),
  // skip result screen
  workflow: {
    showResultScreen: false
  },
  onCompletion: (result) => {
    console.log("Successfully completed workflow", result);
  }
});

await idBoltSession.start();
```
