docs/sdks/ios/id-capture/supported-documents.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Supported Documents
title: Supported Documents
hide_title: true
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_position: 3
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

## ID Scanning Supported Documents

Scandit ID Capture provides various [IdCaptureScanner](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/id-capture/api/id-capture-scanner.html#id-capture-scanner) types, each designed for specific scanning workflows. These workflows can involve scanning either specific parts of a document or the entire document, including both the front and back sides. This section details the types of documents supported by each scanner type.

import IdDocumentsFull from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-full-document.mdx';

<IdDocumentsFull/>

import IdDocumentsSingleSide from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-single-side.mdx';

<IdDocumentsSingleSide/>

## ID Validation Supported Documents

import IdValidateDocuments from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-validate.mdx';

<IdValidateDocuments/>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/ios/id-capture/supported-documents.md, after:

---
description: "Scandit ID Capture provides various types, each designed for specific scanning workflows. These workflows can involve scanning either specific parts of a document or the entire document, including both the front and back sides. This section details the types of documents supported by each scanner type.                                                      "

sidebar_label: Supported Documents
title: Supported Documents
hide_title: true
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_position: 3
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

## ID Scanning Supported Documents

Scandit ID Capture provides various [IdCaptureScanner](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/id-capture/api/id-capture-scanner.html#id-capture-scanner) types, each designed for specific scanning workflows. These workflows can involve scanning either specific parts of a document or the entire document, including both the front and back sides. This section details the types of documents supported by each scanner type.

import IdDocumentsFull from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-full-document.mdx';

<IdDocumentsFull/>

import IdDocumentsSingleSide from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-single-side.mdx';

<IdDocumentsSingleSide/>

## ID Validation Supported Documents

import IdValidateDocuments from '../../../partials/advanced/_id-documents-validate.mdx';

<IdValidateDocuments/>
