docs/sdks/capacitor/id-capture/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
framework: capacitor
keywords:
  - capacitor
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add ID Capture to your application.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Accessing a Camera
- Configuring the Capture Settings
- Implementing a Listener to Receive Scan Results
- Setting up the Capture View and Overlay
- Starting the Capture Process

:::warning
Using ID Capture at the same time as other modes (e.g. Barcode Capture) is not supported.
:::

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](/sdks/capacitor/add-sdk.md).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

Please note that your license may support only a subset of ID Capture features. If you would like to use additional features please contact us at [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com).

### Module Overview

import IdModuleOverview from '../../../partials/get-started/_id-module-overview-no-eu-dl.mdx';

<IdModuleOverview/>

## Create the Data Capture Context

The first step to add capture capabilities to your application is to create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). The context expects a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key during construction.

```js
const context = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(
	'-- ENTER YOUR SCANDIT LICENSE KEY HERE --'
);
```

## Add the Camera

You need to also create the [Camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera):

```js
const camera = Scandit.Camera.default;
context.setFrameSource(camera);

const cameraSettings = Scandit.IdCapture.recommendedCameraSettings;

// Depending on the use case further camera settings adjustments can be made here.

if (camera != null) {
	camera.applySettings(cameraSettings);
}
```

## Create ID Capture Settings

Use [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings) to configure the scanner type to use and the documents that should be accepted and/or rejected.

Check [IdCaptureDocumentType](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-document.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureDocumentType) for all available options.

:::tip
By default, [anonymized data](./advanced.md#configure-data-anonymization) is not returned in accordance with local regulations for specific documents. This setting can be disabled for testing purposes, but be sure to comply with local laws and requirements in production.
:::

```ts
const settings = new Scandit.IdCaptureSettings();

// Documents from any region:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.IdCard(Scandit.Region.AnyRegion));
// Only documents issued by a specific country:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.IdCard(Scandit.Region.Germany));
// Regional documents:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.RegionSpecific.ApecBusinessTravelCard());
// Reject passports from certain regions:
settings.rejectedDocuments.push(new Scandit.Passport(Scandit.Region.Cuba));

// To scan only one-sided documents and a given zone:
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ barcode: true });
// or
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ machineReadableZone: true });
// or
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ visualInspectionZone: true });

// To scan both sides of the document:
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.FullDocumentScanner();
```

Create a new ID Capture mode with the chosen settings:

```ts
const idCapture = Scandit.IdCapture.forContext(context, settings);
```

## Implement the Listener

To receive scan results, implement [IdCaptureListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.id.IIdCaptureListener). The listener provides two callbacks: `onIdCaptured` and `onIdRejected`.

```ts
idCapture.addListener({
	onIdCaptured: (data) => {
		// Success! Handle extracted data here.
	},
	onIdRejected: (data, reason) => {
		// Something went wrong. Inspect the reason to determine the follow-up action.
	}
});
```

### Handling Success

Capture results are delivered as a [CapturedId](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId). This class contains data common for all kinds of personal identification documents.

For more specific information, use its non-null result properties (e.g. [CapturedId.barcode](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId.Barcode)).

On a successful scan you may read the extracted data from `CapturedId`:

```ts
onIdCaptured: (data) => {
	const fullName = data.fullName;
	const dateOfBirth = data.dateOfBirth;
	const dateOfExpiry = data.dateOfExpiry;
	const documentNumber = data.documentNumber;

	// Process data:
	processData(fullName, dateOfBirth, dateOfExpiry, documentNumber);
}
```

:::tip
All data fields are optional, so it's important to verify whether the required information is present if some of the accepted documents may not contain certain data.
:::

### Handling Rejection

The ID scanning process may fail for various reasons. Start from inspecting [RejectionReason](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/rejection-reason.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.RejectionReason) to understand the cause.

You may wish to implement the follow-up action based on the reason of failure:

```ts
onIdRejected: (data, reason) => {
	if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.Timeout) {
		// Ask the user to retry, or offer alternative input method.
	} else if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.DocumentExpired) {
		// Ask the user to provide alternative document.
	} else if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.HolderUnderage) {
		// Reject the process.
	}
}
```

## Set up Capture View and Overlay

When using the built-in camera as [frameSource](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/frame-source.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource), you will typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process.

To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```js
const view = Scandit.DataCaptureView.forContext(context);
view.connectToElement(htmlElement);
```

Then create an instance of [IdCaptureOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay) attached to the view:

```js
let overlay = Scandit.IdCaptureOverlay.withTextCaptureForView(
	idCapture,
	dataCaptureView
);
```

The overlay chooses the displayed UI automatically, based on the selected [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings).

If you prefer to show a different UI or to temporarily hide it, set the appropriate [IdCaptureOverlay.idLayout](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay.IdLayout).

## Start the Capture Process

Finally, turn on the camera to start scanning:

```js
camera.switchToDesiredState(Scandit.FrameSourceState.On);
```

And this is it. You can now scan documents.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/capacitor/id-capture/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add ID Capture to your application.                                                                                     "

sidebar_position: 2
framework: capacitor
keywords:
  - capacitor
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add ID Capture to your application.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Accessing a Camera
- Configuring the Capture Settings
- Implementing a Listener to Receive Scan Results
- Setting up the Capture View and Overlay
- Starting the Capture Process

:::warning
Using ID Capture at the same time as other modes (e.g. Barcode Capture) is not supported.
:::

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](/sdks/capacitor/add-sdk.md).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

Please note that your license may support only a subset of ID Capture features. If you would like to use additional features please contact us at [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com).

### Module Overview

import IdModuleOverview from '../../../partials/get-started/_id-module-overview-no-eu-dl.mdx';

<IdModuleOverview/>

## Create the Data Capture Context

The first step to add capture capabilities to your application is to create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext). The context expects a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key during construction.

```js
const context = Scandit.DataCaptureContext.forLicenseKey(
	'-- ENTER YOUR SCANDIT LICENSE KEY HERE --'
);
```

## Add the Camera

You need to also create the [Camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera):

```js
const camera = Scandit.Camera.default;
context.setFrameSource(camera);

const cameraSettings = Scandit.IdCapture.recommendedCameraSettings;

// Depending on the use case further camera settings adjustments can be made here.

if (camera != null) {
	camera.applySettings(cameraSettings);
}
```

## Create ID Capture Settings

Use [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings) to configure the scanner type to use and the documents that should be accepted and/or rejected.

Check [IdCaptureDocumentType](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-document.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureDocumentType) for all available options.

:::tip
By default, [anonymized data](./advanced.md#configure-data-anonymization) is not returned in accordance with local regulations for specific documents. This setting can be disabled for testing purposes, but be sure to comply with local laws and requirements in production.
:::

```ts
const settings = new Scandit.IdCaptureSettings();

// Documents from any region:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.IdCard(Scandit.Region.AnyRegion));
// Only documents issued by a specific country:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.IdCard(Scandit.Region.Germany));
// Regional documents:
settings.acceptedDocuments.push(new Scandit.RegionSpecific.ApecBusinessTravelCard());
// Reject passports from certain regions:
settings.rejectedDocuments.push(new Scandit.Passport(Scandit.Region.Cuba));

// To scan only one-sided documents and a given zone:
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ barcode: true });
// or
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ machineReadableZone: true });
// or
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.SingleSideScanner({ visualInspectionZone: true });

// To scan both sides of the document:
settings.scannerType = new Scandit.FullDocumentScanner();
```

Create a new ID Capture mode with the chosen settings:

```ts
const idCapture = Scandit.IdCapture.forContext(context, settings);
```

## Implement the Listener

To receive scan results, implement [IdCaptureListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.id.IIdCaptureListener). The listener provides two callbacks: `onIdCaptured` and `onIdRejected`.

```ts
idCapture.addListener({
	onIdCaptured: (data) => {
		// Success! Handle extracted data here.
	},
	onIdRejected: (data, reason) => {
		// Something went wrong. Inspect the reason to determine the follow-up action.
	}
});
```

### Handling Success

Capture results are delivered as a [CapturedId](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId). This class contains data common for all kinds of personal identification documents.

For more specific information, use its non-null result properties (e.g. [CapturedId.barcode](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/captured-id.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.CapturedId.Barcode)).

On a successful scan you may read the extracted data from `CapturedId`:

```ts
onIdCaptured: (data) => {
	const fullName = data.fullName;
	const dateOfBirth = data.dateOfBirth;
	const dateOfExpiry = data.dateOfExpiry;
	const documentNumber = data.documentNumber;

	// Process data:
	processData(fullName, dateOfBirth, dateOfExpiry, documentNumber);
}
```

:::tip
All data fields are optional, so it's important to verify whether the required information is present if some of the accepted documents may not contain certain data.
:::

### Handling Rejection

The ID scanning process may fail for various reasons. Start from inspecting [RejectionReason](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/rejection-reason.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.id.RejectionReason) to understand the cause.

You may wish to implement the follow-up action based on the reason of failure:

```ts
onIdRejected: (data, reason) => {
	if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.Timeout) {
		// Ask the user to retry, or offer alternative input method.
	} else if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.DocumentExpired) {
		// Ask the user to provide alternative document.
	} else if (reason === Scandit.RejectionReason.HolderUnderage) {
		// Reject the process.
	}
}
```

## Set up Capture View and Overlay

When using the built-in camera as [frameSource](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/frame-source.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource), you will typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process.

To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```js
const view = Scandit.DataCaptureView.forContext(context);
view.connectToElement(htmlElement);
```

Then create an instance of [IdCaptureOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay) attached to the view:

```js
let overlay = Scandit.IdCaptureOverlay.withTextCaptureForView(
	idCapture,
	dataCaptureView
);
```

The overlay chooses the displayed UI automatically, based on the selected [IdCaptureSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/id-capture-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.id.IdCaptureSettings).

If you prefer to show a different UI or to temporarily hide it, set the appropriate [IdCaptureOverlay.idLayout](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/capacitor/id-capture/api/ui/id-capture-overlay.html#property-scandit.datacapture.id.ui.IdCaptureOverlay.IdLayout).

## Start the Capture Process

Finally, turn on the camera to start scanning:

```js
camera.switchToDesiredState(Scandit.FrameSourceState.On);
```

And this is it. You can now scan documents.
