docs/sdks/ios/barcode-selection/intro.md, before:

---
description: "Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenario where there are multiple barcodes present. This includes the following:                                                                        "

sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# About Barcode Selection

Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenario where there are multiple barcodes present. This includes the following:

- A crowded shelf where users want to scan the correct barcode to report stockouts or perform a cycle count.
- An order catalog with barcodes printed closely together.
- A label that has several types of barcodes; however users are only interested in scanning barcodes that have the same type, but cannot select them programmatically.

Barcode Selection provides two key capabilities:

- **Aim to Select** allows users to select one code at a time. This is especially useful for one-handed operation.
- **Tap to Select** is a quick way for users to select several codes from the same view. Selection is done by tapping on highlighted barcodes in the live camera preview or on a frozen screen. Tapping on codes while keeping the smartphone steady can be tricky, and freezing the screen allows for ergonomic use.

:::warning
Barcode Selection does not support handling of duplicate codes. If a code appears twice in the visible preview both instances will be marked as selected even if only one of them was selected.
:::

Commit message:

Restore barcode-selection in sidebar and add deprecation warnings
- Restored barcode-selection links in sidebar navigation for supported frameworks (iOS, Android, Cordova, React Native, Flutter, Capacitor, .NET iOS, .NET Android)
- Moved barcode-selection under "Single Scanning" category for better organization
- Added deprecation warnings to all barcode-selection intro and get-started pages recommending SparkScan or Barcode Capture API instead
- Excluded barcode-selection from Web, Titanium, and Linux sidebars as these frameworks don't support it
# Conflicts:
#	sidebars.ts

docs/sdks/ios/barcode-selection/intro.md, after:

---
description: "Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenario where there are multiple barcodes present. This includes the following:                                                                        "

sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# About Barcode Selection

:::warning
We recommend using **SparkScan** or **Barcode Capture API** instead of Barcode Selection. With the new smart features, barcode selection in crowded environments is done without the need of a dedicated API. This API will be deprecated.
:::

Barcode Selection enables you to increase scanning accuracy and prevent users from scanning the wrong code in scenario where there are multiple barcodes present. This includes the following:

- A crowded shelf where users want to scan the correct barcode to report stockouts or perform a cycle count.
- An order catalog with barcodes printed closely together.
- A label that has several types of barcodes; however users are only interested in scanning barcodes that have the same type, but cannot select them programmatically.

Barcode Selection provides two key capabilities:

- **Aim to Select** allows users to select one code at a time. This is especially useful for one-handed operation.
- **Tap to Select** is a quick way for users to select several codes from the same view. Selection is done by tapping on highlighted barcodes in the live camera preview or on a frozen screen. Tapping on codes while keeping the smartphone steady can be tricky, and freezing the screen allows for ergonomic use.

:::warning
Barcode Selection does not support handling of duplicate codes. If a code appears twice in the visible preview both instances will be marked as selected even if only one of them was selected.
:::
