docs/sdks/android/samples.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'Samples'
pagination_next: null
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Android SDK Samples

This page provides a list of samples available for the Scandit Data Capture SDK for Android. Each sample demonstrates a specific feature or use case of the SDK.

The repository with all the samples can be found [here](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master), and each individual sample is linked below.

## Barcode Scanning

### Single Scanning

#### SparkScan

![SparkScan List Building](/img/samples/sparkscan_list_building.png)

##### [List Building](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/01_Barcode_Scanning_with_Pre_Built_UI/ListBuildingSample)

Use SparkScan to populate a list of scanned barcodes.

##### [Receiving](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ReceivingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-receiving.mp4" />

Use a combination of SparkScan and [MatrixScan Count](#matrixscan-count) for a receiving use case.

#### Barcode Capture

##### [Single Scan](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/02_Barcode_Scanning_with_Low_Level_API/BarcodeCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/bc-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the Barcode Capture mode to scan a single barcode.

### Batch Scanning

#### MatrixScan AR

##### [Simple Sample](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanARSimpleSample)

Example demonstrating how to highlight barcodes and display additional information over them using augmented reality (AR) with MatrixScan AR (`BarcodeAR` API).

#### MatrixScan Batch

Examples utilizing the low-level [`BarcodeBatch`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html) API.

##### [Simple Highlight](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use MatrixScan to highlight barcodes in a frame.

##### [Rejection](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanRejectSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-reject.mp4" />

Use custom conditions to highlight and scan only the barcodes that meet the specified criteria.

#### MatrixScan Count

![MatrixScan Count](/img/samples/ms_count.png)

##### [Batch Scanning](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-count-simple.mp4" />

Use MatrixScan to batch scan and count the number of barcodes in a frame.

##### [Receiving](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ReceivingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-receiving.mp4" />

Use a combination of [SparkScan](#sparkscan) and MatrixScan Count for a receiving use case.

##### [Expiry Management](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ExpiryManagementSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ss-expiry.mp4" />

Share scan data between MatrixScan Count and Spark Scan to show the expiration status of scanned items.

##### [Tote Mapping](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountToteMappingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/matrixscan-count/tote_mapping.mp4" />

Map scanned barcodes to specific totes. This is useful for In-Store Order Fulfillment scenarios where you need to scan a barcode and have the system automatically assign the item to a specific tote.

#### MatrixScan Find

![MatrixScan Find](/img/samples/ms_find_android.png)

##### [Search and Find](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/03_Search_and_Find/SearchAndFindSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-find.mp4" />

Use barcode capture to define search criteria by scanning items, and MatrixScan Find can then be launched to find the pre-defined item.

#### Smart Label Capture

![Smart Label Capture](/img/batch-scanning/SLC-smart-devices.jpg)

##### [Label Capture Simple Sample](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/05_Smart_Label_Capture/LabelCaptureSimpleSample)

Use Smart Label Capture to scan labels and extract price and weight information simultaneously.

## ID Scanning

![ID Scanning](/img/samples/id_scanning.png)

### ID Capture

#### [Simple ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card.

#### [Extended ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureExtendedSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-extended.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card with additional fields.

#### [Settings](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSettingsSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-settings.mp4" />

Demonstrates how you can adapt the ID capture settings best to your needs and experiment with all the options.

### ID Verification

#### [Age Verification](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/AgeVerifiedDeliverySample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-avd.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify age for a delivery.

#### [US Driver's License](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/USDLVerificationSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-usdl.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify a US driver's license.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/android/samples.md, after:

---
description: "This page provides a list of samples available for the Scandit Data Capture SDK for Android. Each sample demonstrates a specific feature or use case of the SDK.                                                                        "

sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'Samples'
pagination_next: null
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Android SDK Samples

This page provides a list of samples available for the Scandit Data Capture SDK for Android. Each sample demonstrates a specific feature or use case of the SDK.

The repository with all the samples can be found [here](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master), and each individual sample is linked below.

## Barcode Scanning

### Single Scanning

#### SparkScan

![SparkScan List Building](/img/samples/sparkscan_list_building.png)

##### [List Building](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/01_Barcode_Scanning_with_Pre_Built_UI/ListBuildingSample)

Use SparkScan to populate a list of scanned barcodes.

##### [Receiving](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ReceivingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-receiving.mp4" />

Use a combination of SparkScan and [MatrixScan Count](#matrixscan-count) for a receiving use case.

#### Barcode Capture

##### [Single Scan](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/02_Barcode_Scanning_with_Low_Level_API/BarcodeCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/bc-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the Barcode Capture mode to scan a single barcode.

### Batch Scanning

#### MatrixScan AR

##### [Simple Sample](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanARSimpleSample)

Example demonstrating how to highlight barcodes and display additional information over them using augmented reality (AR) with MatrixScan AR (`BarcodeAR` API).

#### MatrixScan Batch

Examples utilizing the low-level [`BarcodeBatch`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html) API.

##### [Simple Highlight](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use MatrixScan to highlight barcodes in a frame.

##### [Rejection](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanRejectSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-reject.mp4" />

Use custom conditions to highlight and scan only the barcodes that meet the specified criteria.

#### MatrixScan Count

![MatrixScan Count](/img/samples/ms_count.png)

##### [Batch Scanning](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-count-simple.mp4" />

Use MatrixScan to batch scan and count the number of barcodes in a frame.

##### [Receiving](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ReceivingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-receiving.mp4" />

Use a combination of [SparkScan](#sparkscan) and MatrixScan Count for a receiving use case.

##### [Expiry Management](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/ExpiryManagementSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ss-expiry.mp4" />

Share scan data between MatrixScan Count and Spark Scan to show the expiration status of scanned items.

##### [Tote Mapping](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountToteMappingSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/matrixscan-count/tote_mapping.mp4" />

Map scanned barcodes to specific totes. This is useful for In-Store Order Fulfillment scenarios where you need to scan a barcode and have the system automatically assign the item to a specific tote.

#### MatrixScan Find

![MatrixScan Find](/img/samples/ms_find_android.png)

##### [Search and Find](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/03_Search_and_Find/SearchAndFindSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-find.mp4" />

Use barcode capture to define search criteria by scanning items, and MatrixScan Find can then be launched to find the pre-defined item.

#### Smart Label Capture

![Smart Label Capture](/img/batch-scanning/SLC-smart-devices.jpg)

##### [Label Capture Simple Sample](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/05_Smart_Label_Capture/LabelCaptureSimpleSample)

Use Smart Label Capture to scan labels and extract price and weight information simultaneously.

## ID Scanning

![ID Scanning](/img/samples/id_scanning.png)

### ID Capture

#### [Simple ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card.

#### [Extended ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureExtendedSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-extended.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card with additional fields.

#### [Settings](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSettingsSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-settings.mp4" />

Demonstrates how you can adapt the ID capture settings best to your needs and experiment with all the options.

### ID Verification

#### [Age Verification](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/AgeVerifiedDeliverySample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-avd.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify age for a delivery.

#### [US Driver's License](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-android-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/USDLVerificationSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-usdl.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify a US driver's license.
