versioned_docs/version-7.4.1/sdks/react-native/samples.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'Samples'
pagination_next: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# React Native SDK Samples

This page provides a list of samples available for the Scandit Data Capture SDK for React Native. Each sample demonstrates a specific feature or use case of the SDK.

The repository with all the samples can be found [here](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master), and each individual sample is linked below.

## Barcode Scanning

### Single Scanning

#### SparkScan

![SparkScan List Building](/img/samples/sparkscan_list_building.png)

##### [List Building](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/01_Barcode_Scanning_with_Pre_Built_UI/ListBuildingSample)

Use SparkScan to populate a list of scanned barcodes.

#### Barcode Capture

##### [Single Scan](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/02_Barcode_Scanning_with_Low_Level_API/BarcodeCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/bc-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the Barcode Capture mode to scan a single barcode.

### Batch Scanning

#### MatrixScan Batch

Examples utilizing the low-level `BarcodeBatch` API.

##### [Simple Highlight](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use MatrixScan to highlight barcodes in a frame.

##### [Rejection](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanRejectSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-reject.mp4" />

Use custom conditions to highlight and scan only the barcodes that meet the specified criteria.

#### MatrixScan Count

![MatrixScan Count](/img/samples/ms_count.png)

##### [Batch Scanning](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-count-simple.mp4" />

Use MatrixScan to batch scan and count the number of barcodes in a frame.

#### MatrixScan Find

![MatrixScan Find](/img/samples/ms_find_android.png)

##### [Search and Find](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/03_Search_and_Find/SearchAndFindSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-find.mp4" />

Use barcode capture to define search criteria by scanning items, and MatrixScan Find can then be launched to find the pre-defined item.

## ID Scanning

![ID Scanning](/img/samples/id_scanning.png)

### ID Capture

#### [Simple ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card.

### ID Verification

#### [US Driver's License](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/USDLVerificationSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-usdl.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify a US driver's license.

Commit message:

Add 7-segment display label definition to docs
Updated Android, iOS, and React Native label definition documentation to include the new 7-segment display label type. Also updated sample links and descriptions for Smart Label Capture in Android, React Native, and Web SDK documentation. Expanded use case examples in the Smart Label Capture introduction.

versioned_docs/version-7.4.1/sdks/react-native/samples.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'Samples'
pagination_next: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# React Native SDK Samples

This page provides a list of samples available for the Scandit Data Capture SDK for React Native. Each sample demonstrates a specific feature or use case of the SDK.

The repository with all the samples can be found [here](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master), and each individual sample is linked below.

## Barcode Scanning

### Single Scanning

#### SparkScan

![SparkScan List Building](/img/samples/sparkscan_list_building.png)

##### [List Building](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/01_Barcode_Scanning_with_Pre_Built_UI/ListBuildingSample)

Use SparkScan to populate a list of scanned barcodes.

#### Barcode Capture

##### [Single Scan](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/01_Single_Scanning_Samples/02_Barcode_Scanning_with_Low_Level_API/BarcodeCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/bc-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the Barcode Capture mode to scan a single barcode.

### Batch Scanning

#### MatrixScan Batch

Examples utilizing the low-level `BarcodeBatch` API.

##### [Simple Highlight](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use MatrixScan to highlight barcodes in a frame.

##### [Rejection](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/01_Batch_Scanning_and_AR_Info_Lookup/MatrixScanRejectSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-reject.mp4" />

Use custom conditions to highlight and scan only the barcodes that meet the specified criteria.

#### MatrixScan Count

![MatrixScan Count](/img/samples/ms_count.png)

##### [Batch Scanning](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/02_Counting_and_Receiving/MatrixScanCountSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-count-simple.mp4" />

Use MatrixScan to batch scan and count the number of barcodes in a frame.

#### MatrixScan Find

![MatrixScan Find](/img/samples/ms_find_android.png)

##### [Search and Find](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/03_Search_and_Find/SearchAndFindSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/ms-find.mp4" />

Use barcode capture to define search criteria by scanning items, and MatrixScan Find can then be launched to find the pre-defined item.

#### Smart Label Capture

![Smart Label Capture](/img/batch-scanning/SLC-smart-devices.jpg)

##### [Price and Weight Label Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/03_Advanced_Batch_Scanning_Samples/05_Smart_Label_Capture/PriceWeightLabelCaptureSample)

Use Smart Label Capture to scan labels and extract price and weight information simultaneously.

## ID Scanning

![ID Scanning](/img/samples/id_scanning.png)

### ID Capture

#### [Simple ID Capture](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/IdCaptureSimpleSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-simple.mp4" />

Simple sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to scan an ID card.

### ID Verification

#### [US Driver's License](https://github.com/Scandit/datacapture-react-native-samples/tree/master/02_ID_Scanning_Samples/USDLVerificationSample)

<ReactPlayer playing controls url="/img/samples/id-usdl.mp4" />

Sample showing how to use the ID Capture mode to verify a US driver's license.
