docs/sdks/react-native/matrixscan-pick/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.

## BarcodePick Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodePick` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodePickListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```javascript
mode.addListener({
	onObservationStarted() {
		// The mode was started
	},
    
	onObservationStopped(foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) {
		// The mode was stopped after the finish button was clicked
	},
});
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/react-native/matrixscan-pick/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.                                                                     "

sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: react
keywords:
  - react
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.

## BarcodePick Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodePick` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodePickListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```javascript
mode.addListener({
	onObservationStarted() {
		// The mode was started
	},
    
	onObservationStopped(foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) {
		// The mode was stopped after the finish button was clicked
	},
});
```
