docs/hosted/express/configuration/scan-labels.md, before:

---
framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

# Scan Labels

Powered by [Smart Label Capture](/sdks/android/label-capture/intro/), a feature available in the Scandit Smart Data Capture SDK, this mode enables the simultaneous scanning of multiple barcodes and printed text on labels, streamlining data entry and reducing errors.

By combining barcode recognition with OCR and built-in intelligence, it can understand the context of the data and extract only the relevant fields for your application.

It is available via the **Scan Labels** option in the Express menu.

<img src="/img/express/express_menu.jpeg" alt="Express Menu" width="350px" />

On start, you will be able to scan labels using the default configuration available out-of-the-box, however, your account administrator can customize the implementation to your specific use case, detailing the label layout, fields, and type of data to be extracted.

When finished scanning, you can export the list of scanned details.

:::tip
If you need to customize the behavior of the Smart Label Capture feature, please contact [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com).
:::

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/express/configuration/scan-labels.md, after:

---
description: "Powered by , a feature available in the Scandit Smart Data Capture SDK, this mode enables the simultaneous scanning of multiple barcodes and printed text on labels, streamlining data entry and reducing errors.                                                                   "

framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

# Scan Labels

Powered by [Smart Label Capture](/sdks/android/label-capture/intro/), a feature available in the Scandit Smart Data Capture SDK, this mode enables the simultaneous scanning of multiple barcodes and printed text on labels, streamlining data entry and reducing errors.

By combining barcode recognition with OCR and built-in intelligence, it can understand the context of the data and extract only the relevant fields for your application.

It is available via the **Scan Labels** option in the Express menu.

<img src="/img/express/express_menu.jpeg" alt="Express Menu" width="350px" />

On start, you will be able to scan labels using the default configuration available out-of-the-box, however, your account administrator can customize the implementation to your specific use case, detailing the label layout, fields, and type of data to be extracted.

When finished scanning, you can export the list of scanned details.

:::tip
If you need to customize the behavior of the Smart Label Capture feature, please contact [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com).
:::
