docs/hosted/express/getting-started/installation.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Installation'
displayed_sidebar: expressSidebar
sidebar_position: 1
framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

# Installation

Follow the steps below to get started with Scandit Express.

:::note
To use Scandit Express, you need to have a Scandit account. If you don't have one, you can [sign up for a free trial](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=express-trial).
:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="iOS" label="iOS">

    1. Sign up or Log in via the [Scandit Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/) and select you project card.
    2. Scan the QR code of the project using your smart device. You will be forwarded to the AppStore. 
    3. Install Scandit Express from there and your application will automatically be configured with the project of the scanned QR code.
    4. Once installed, iOS will ask you to grant Scandit Express camera access. Camera access is required for barcode scanning.
    5. Scandit Express will now be present whenever the keyboard is open. Click on the globe icon of the keyboard to switch between keyboards.

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="android" label="Android">

    1. Sign up or Log in via the [Scandit Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/) and select you project card.
    2. Scan the QR code of the project using your smart device. You will be forwarded to the Play Store. 
    3. Install Scandit Express from there and your application will automatically be configured with the project of the scanned QR code.
    4. Once installed, Android will ask you to grant Scandit Express camera access. Camera access is required for barcode scanning.
    5. Scandit Express will now be present whenever the keyboard is open. Click on the globe icon of the keyboard to switch between keyboards.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/express/getting-started/installation.md, after:

---
description: "Follow the steps below to get started with Scandit Express.                                                                                          "

sidebar_label: 'Installation'
displayed_sidebar: expressSidebar
sidebar_position: 1
framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

# Installation

Follow the steps below to get started with Scandit Express.

:::note
To use Scandit Express, you need to have a Scandit account. If you don't have one, you can [sign up for a free trial](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=express-trial).
:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="iOS" label="iOS">

    1. Sign up or Log in via the [Scandit Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/) and select you project card.
    2. Scan the QR code of the project using your smart device. You will be forwarded to the AppStore. 
    3. Install Scandit Express from there and your application will automatically be configured with the project of the scanned QR code.
    4. Once installed, iOS will ask you to grant Scandit Express camera access. Camera access is required for barcode scanning.
    5. Scandit Express will now be present whenever the keyboard is open. Click on the globe icon of the keyboard to switch between keyboards.

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="android" label="Android">

    1. Sign up or Log in via the [Scandit Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/) and select you project card.
    2. Scan the QR code of the project using your smart device. You will be forwarded to the Play Store. 
    3. Install Scandit Express from there and your application will automatically be configured with the project of the scanned QR code.
    4. Once installed, Android will ask you to grant Scandit Express camera access. Camera access is required for barcode scanning.
    5. Scandit Express will now be present whenever the keyboard is open. Click on the globe icon of the keyboard to switch between keyboards.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
