docs/sdks/ios/matrixscan-pick/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.

## BarcodePick Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodePick` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodePickListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickListener {
    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didUpdate session: BarcodePickSession) {
        // This callback will be invoked on a background thread every frame. The session object contains
        // updated the newly tracked items.
    }
}
```

## BarcodePickAction Listener

You may want to be notified when a user interacts with the UI of the `BarcodePick` mode, which can then be used to reject specific pick/unpick actions.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickActionListener {
    func didPickItem(withData data: String, completionHandler: @escaping (Bool) -> Void) {
        // Perform the needed checks, and invoke completionHandler(true/false) to allow/reject
        // the current pick action
        completionHandler(true)
    }
    
    func didUnpickItem(withData data: String, completionHandler: @escaping (Bool) -> Void) {
        // Perform the needed checks, and invoke completionHandler(true/false) to allow/reject
        // the current unpick action
        completionHandler(true)
    }
}
```

## BarcodePickScanning Listener

You can register a [`BarcodePickScanningListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-scanning-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickScanningListener) on the mode, which can be used to listen to every time the pick state changes.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickScanningListener {
    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didUpdate scanningSession: BarcodePickScanningSession) {
        // This callback will be invoked on a background thread every time the picked state of some item changes.
        // The session object contains the list of picked and scanned items.
    }

    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didComplete scanningSession: BarcodePickScanningSession) {
        // This callback is invoked when all the registered items needing picking have been picked.
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/ios/matrixscan-pick/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.                                                                     "

sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Pick is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Pick to best fit your needs.

## BarcodePick Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodePick` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodePickListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickListener {
    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didUpdate session: BarcodePickSession) {
        // This callback will be invoked on a background thread every frame. The session object contains
        // updated the newly tracked items.
    }
}
```

## BarcodePickAction Listener

You may want to be notified when a user interacts with the UI of the `BarcodePick` mode, which can then be used to reject specific pick/unpick actions.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickActionListener {
    func didPickItem(withData data: String, completionHandler: @escaping (Bool) -> Void) {
        // Perform the needed checks, and invoke completionHandler(true/false) to allow/reject
        // the current pick action
        completionHandler(true)
    }
    
    func didUnpickItem(withData data: String, completionHandler: @escaping (Bool) -> Void) {
        // Perform the needed checks, and invoke completionHandler(true/false) to allow/reject
        // the current unpick action
        completionHandler(true)
    }
}
```

## BarcodePickScanning Listener

You can register a [`BarcodePickScanningListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-scanning-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.IBarcodePickScanningListener) on the mode, which can be used to listen to every time the pick state changes.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickScanningListener {
    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didUpdate scanningSession: BarcodePickScanningSession) {
        // This callback will be invoked on a background thread every time the picked state of some item changes.
        // The session object contains the list of picked and scanned items.
    }

    func barcodePick(_ barcodePick: BarcodePick, didComplete scanningSession: BarcodePickScanningSession) {
        // This callback is invoked when all the registered items needing picking have been picked.
    }
}
```
