docs/sdks/ios/matrixscan-pick/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan Pick to your application. Implementing MatrixScan Pick involves two primary elements:

- Barcode Pick: The data capture mode that is used for scan and pick functionality.
- A Barcode Pick View: The pre-built UI elements used to highlight items to be picked.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Configuring the Barcode Pick Mode
- Setup the Barcode Pick View
- Registering the Listener to notify about found items

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextIos from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-ios.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextIos/>

## Configure the Barcode Pick Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode Pick Mode is the `BarcodePick` object. You can configure the supported Symbologies through its [`BarcodePickSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-settings.html), and set up the list of items that you want MatrixScan Pick to highlight.

Here we configure it for tracking EAN13 codes, but you should change this to the correct symbologies for your use case.

```swift
let settings = BarcodePickSettings()
settings.set(symbology: .ean13UPCA, enabled: true)
```

Then you have to create the product provider for the Barcode Pick mode. This provider is responsible for providing the items that should be highlighted in the AR view. Note that in this example we are using a hardcoded list of items, but in a real-world scenario, you would fetch this list from your backend.

```swift
let productDatabase: [ProductDatabaseEntry] = [
    .init(
        identifier: "product_1",
        quantity: 2,
        items: [
            "9783598215438",
            "9783598215414",
            "9783598215441",
            "9783598215412"
        ]),
    .init(
        identifier: "product_2",
        quantity: 3,
        items: [
            "9783598215471",
            "9783598215481",
            "9783598215458",
            "9783598215498",
            "9783598215421"
        ])
]

var products: Set<BarcodePickProduct> = []
productDatabase.forEach { entry in
    products.insert(.init(identifier: entry.identifier,
                        quantityToPick: entry.quantity))
}

let productProvider = BarcodePickAsyncMapperProductProvider(products: products,
                                                            providerDelegate: self)
```

And the product provider delegate:

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickAsyncMapperProductProviderDelegate {
    func mapItems(_ items: [String], completionHandler: @escaping ([BarcodePickProductProviderCallbackItem]) -> Void) {
        var result: [BarcodePickProductProviderCallbackItem] = []
        // Use the scanned items list to retrieve the identifier of the product they belong to.
        // This should be an async query in real world scenarios if there are a lot of products/items to loop.
        items.forEach { item in
            if let product = productDatabase.first(where: { entry in
                entry.items.contains(item)
            }) {
                result.append(.init(itemData: item,
                                    productIdentifier: product.identifier))
            }
        }

        completionHandler(result)
    }
}
```

Then create the mode with the previously created settings:

```swift
let mode = BarcodePick(context: context,
                        settings: settings,
                        productProvider: productProvider)
```

## Setup the `BarcodePickView`

MatrixScan Pick’s built-in AR user interface includes buttons and overlays that guide the user through the scan and pick process. By adding a [`BarcodePickView`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickView), the scanning interface is added automatically to your application.

The `BarcodePickView` appearance can be customized through [`BarcodePickViewSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickViewSettings) to match your application’s look and feel. The following settings can be customized:

* Colors of dots in augmented reality overlay
* Enable sound and haptic alerts
* Guidelines text
* Showing hints
* Finish button
* Pause button
* Zoom button
* Loading Dialog

```swift
let viewSettings = BarcodePickViewSettings()
// setup the desired appearance settings by updating the fields in the object above
```

Next, create a `BarcodePickView` instance with the Data Capture Context and the settings initialized in the previous step. The `BarcodePickView` is automatically added to the provided parent view.

```swift
let BarcodePickView = BarcodePickView(parentView: view, context: context, BarcodePick: mode, settings: viewSettings)
```

Connect the `BarcodePickView` to the iOS view controller lifecycle. In particular, make sure to call `BarcodePickView.prepareSearching()` on your UIViewController’s [`viewWillAppear`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiviewcontroller/1621510-viewwillappear) method to make sure that start up time is optimal.

```swift
override func viewWillAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillAppear(animated)
    barcodePickView.start()
}

override func viewWillDisappear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillDisappear(animated)
    barcodePickView.pause()
    if isMovingFromParent {
        barcodePickView.stop()
    }
}
```

And the BarcodePickViewUIDelegate:

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickViewUIDelegate {
    func barcodePickViewDidTapFinishButton(_ view: BarcodePickView) {
        navigationController?.popViewController(animated: true)
    }
}
```

## Register the Listener

The `BarcodePickView` displays a **Finish** button next to its shutter button. 

Register a [BarcodePickViewListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickViewListener) to be notified what items have been found once the finish button is pressed.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickViewListener {
    func barcodePickViewDidStartScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidFreezeScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidPauseScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidStopScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}
}
```

## Start Searching

With everything configured, you can now start searching for items. This is done by calling `barcodePickView.start()`.

```swift
override func viewDidAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewDidAppear(animated)
    BarcodePickView.start()
}
```

This is the equivalent of pressing the Play button programmatically. It will start the search process, turn on the camera, and hide the item carousel.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/ios/matrixscan-pick/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan Pick to your application. Implementing MatrixScan Pick involves two primary elements:                                                                              "

sidebar_position: 2
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan Pick to your application. Implementing MatrixScan Pick involves two primary elements:

- Barcode Pick: The data capture mode that is used for scan and pick functionality.
- A Barcode Pick View: The pre-built UI elements used to highlight items to be picked.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Configuring the Barcode Pick Mode
- Setup the Barcode Pick View
- Registering the Listener to notify about found items

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextIos from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-ios.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextIos/>

## Configure the Barcode Pick Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode Pick Mode is the `BarcodePick` object. You can configure the supported Symbologies through its [`BarcodePickSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/barcode-pick-settings.html), and set up the list of items that you want MatrixScan Pick to highlight.

Here we configure it for tracking EAN13 codes, but you should change this to the correct symbologies for your use case.

```swift
let settings = BarcodePickSettings()
settings.set(symbology: .ean13UPCA, enabled: true)
```

Then you have to create the product provider for the Barcode Pick mode. This provider is responsible for providing the items that should be highlighted in the AR view. Note that in this example we are using a hardcoded list of items, but in a real-world scenario, you would fetch this list from your backend.

```swift
let productDatabase: [ProductDatabaseEntry] = [
    .init(
        identifier: "product_1",
        quantity: 2,
        items: [
            "9783598215438",
            "9783598215414",
            "9783598215441",
            "9783598215412"
        ]),
    .init(
        identifier: "product_2",
        quantity: 3,
        items: [
            "9783598215471",
            "9783598215481",
            "9783598215458",
            "9783598215498",
            "9783598215421"
        ])
]

var products: Set<BarcodePickProduct> = []
productDatabase.forEach { entry in
    products.insert(.init(identifier: entry.identifier,
                        quantityToPick: entry.quantity))
}

let productProvider = BarcodePickAsyncMapperProductProvider(products: products,
                                                            providerDelegate: self)
```

And the product provider delegate:

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickAsyncMapperProductProviderDelegate {
    func mapItems(_ items: [String], completionHandler: @escaping ([BarcodePickProductProviderCallbackItem]) -> Void) {
        var result: [BarcodePickProductProviderCallbackItem] = []
        // Use the scanned items list to retrieve the identifier of the product they belong to.
        // This should be an async query in real world scenarios if there are a lot of products/items to loop.
        items.forEach { item in
            if let product = productDatabase.first(where: { entry in
                entry.items.contains(item)
            }) {
                result.append(.init(itemData: item,
                                    productIdentifier: product.identifier))
            }
        }

        completionHandler(result)
    }
}
```

Then create the mode with the previously created settings:

```swift
let mode = BarcodePick(context: context,
                        settings: settings,
                        productProvider: productProvider)
```

## Setup the `BarcodePickView`

MatrixScan Pick’s built-in AR user interface includes buttons and overlays that guide the user through the scan and pick process. By adding a [`BarcodePickView`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickView), the scanning interface is added automatically to your application.

The `BarcodePickView` appearance can be customized through [`BarcodePickViewSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickViewSettings) to match your application’s look and feel. The following settings can be customized:

* Colors of dots in augmented reality overlay
* Enable sound and haptic alerts
* Guidelines text
* Showing hints
* Finish button
* Pause button
* Zoom button
* Loading Dialog

```swift
let viewSettings = BarcodePickViewSettings()
// setup the desired appearance settings by updating the fields in the object above
```

Next, create a `BarcodePickView` instance with the Data Capture Context and the settings initialized in the previous step. The `BarcodePickView` is automatically added to the provided parent view.

```swift
let BarcodePickView = BarcodePickView(parentView: view, context: context, BarcodePick: mode, settings: viewSettings)
```

Connect the `BarcodePickView` to the iOS view controller lifecycle. In particular, make sure to call `BarcodePickView.prepareSearching()` on your UIViewController’s [`viewWillAppear`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiviewcontroller/1621510-viewwillappear) method to make sure that start up time is optimal.

```swift
override func viewWillAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillAppear(animated)
    barcodePickView.start()
}

override func viewWillDisappear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillDisappear(animated)
    barcodePickView.pause()
    if isMovingFromParent {
        barcodePickView.stop()
    }
}
```

And the BarcodePickViewUIDelegate:

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickViewUIDelegate {
    func barcodePickViewDidTapFinishButton(_ view: BarcodePickView) {
        navigationController?.popViewController(animated: true)
    }
}
```

## Register the Listener

The `BarcodePickView` displays a **Finish** button next to its shutter button. 

Register a [BarcodePickViewListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-pick-view-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.pick.ui.BarcodePickViewListener) to be notified what items have been found once the finish button is pressed.

```swift
extension ViewController: BarcodePickViewListener {
    func barcodePickViewDidStartScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidFreezeScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidPauseScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}

    func barcodePickViewDidStopScanning(_ view: BarcodePickView) {}
}
```

## Start Searching

With everything configured, you can now start searching for items. This is done by calling `barcodePickView.start()`.

```swift
override func viewDidAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewDidAppear(animated)
    BarcodePickView.start()
}
```

This is the equivalent of pressing the Play button programmatically. It will start the search process, turn on the camera, and hide the item carousel.
