docs/sdks/web/matrixscan/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan to your application.

The general steps are:

- Include the ScanditBarcodeCapture library and its dependencies to your project, if any.
- Create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext), initialized with your license key.
- Create a [barcode tracking settings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSettings) instance where you enable the [barcode symbologies](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/symbology.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.barcode.Symbology) you want to read in your application.
- Create a new [barcode tracking](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) object and initialize it with the settings created above.
- Obtain a [camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera) instance and set it as the frame source on the data capture context previously created.
- Create a new [data capture view](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) and add a [basic overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay) instance to it for visual feedback.
- Register an [overlay listener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener) and implement [BrushForTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.BrushForTrackedBarcode), which is called whenever a new tracked barcode appears.

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### Enable browser multithreading

You can achieve better performance by enabling multithreading in any browser that supports it. Check the [Requirements Page](../../../system-requirements.md) to know the minimum versions that can take advantage of multithreading.

To enable multithreading you must set your site to be [crossOriginIsolated](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/crossOriginIsolated/). This will enable the SDK to use multithreading and significantly boost performance. If the environment supports it the sdk will automatically use multithreading. You can programmatically check for multithreading supports using [BrowserHelper.checkMultithreadingSupport()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/web/browser-compatibility.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.BrowserHelper.CheckMultithreadingSupport).

:::important
Multithreading is particularly critical for MatrixScan so be sure to configure it correctly following this [tutorial](https://web.dev/coop-coep/). You can also check this [guide to enable cross-origin isolation](https://web.dev/cross-origin-isolation-guide/) and [safely reviving shared memory](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2020/07/safely-reviving-shared-memory/).
:::

An example of how headers could be set:

```sh
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp;
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin;
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin allow-credentials; require-corp origin https://example.com
https://example.net;
```

### Internal dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Create the Data Capture Context

The first step to add capture capabilities to your application is to create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext).

```js
// the license key used in configure() will be used
const context = await SDCCore.DataCaptureContext.create();
```

## Configure the Barcode Batch Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode Batch Mode is the [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) object. It is configured through [BarcodeBatchSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSettings) and allows to register one or more [listeners](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener) that will get informed whenever a new frame has been processed.

Most of the times, you will not need to implement a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener), instead you will add a [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay) and implement a [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener).

For this tutorial, we will setup Barcode Batch for tracking QR codes.

Next, create a [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) instance with the data capture context and the settings initialized in the previous steps:

```js
const barcodeBatch = await SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatch.forContext(
	context,
	settings
);
```

## Use the Built-in Camera

The data capture context supports using different frame sources to perform recognition on. Most applications will use the built-in camera of the device, e.g. the world-facing camera of a device. The remainder of this tutorial will assume
that you use the built-in camera.

When using the built-in camera there are recommended settings for each capture mode. These should be used to achieve the best performance and user experience for the respective mode. The following couple of lines show how to get the recommended settings and create the camera from it:

```js
const camera = SDCCore.Camera.default;

const cameraSettings = SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatch.recommendedCameraSettings;
await camera.applySettings(cameraSettings);
```

Because the frame source is configurable, the data capture context must be told which frame source to use. This is done with a call to [DataCaptureContext.setFrameSource()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext.SetFrameSourceAsync):

```js
await context.setFrameSource(camera);
```

The camera is off by default and must be turned on. This is done by calling
[FrameSource.switchToDesiredState()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource.SwitchToDesiredStateAsync) with a value of
[FrameSourceState.On](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#value-scandit.datacapture.core.FrameSourceState.On):

```js
await camera.switchToDesiredState(Scandit.FrameSourceState.On);
```



## Use a Capture View to Visualize the Scan Process

When using the built-in camera as frame source, you will typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process. To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```js
const view = await SDCCore.DataCaptureView.forContext(context);
view.connectToElement(htmlElement);
```

To visualize the results of Barcode Batch, first you need to add the following [overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay):

```js
const overlay =
	await SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay.withBarcodeBatchForView(
		barcodeBatch,
		view
	);
```

Once the overlay has been added, you should implement the [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener) interface. The method [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.brushForTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.BrushForTrackedBarcode) is invoked every time a new tracked barcode appears and it can be used to set a [brush](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/brush.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.Brush) that will be used to highlight that specific barcode in the [overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay).

```js
overlay.listener = {
	brushForTrackedBarcode: (overlay, trackedBarcode) => {
		// Return a custom Brush based on the tracked barcode.
	},
};
```

If you would like to make the highlights tappable, you need to implement the [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.didTapTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.OnTrackedBarcodeTapped) method.

```js
overlay.listener = {
	didTapTrackedBarcode: (overlay, trackedBarcode) => {
		// A tracked barcode was tapped.
	},
};
```

## Get Barcode Batch Feedback

Barcode Batch, unlike Barcode Capture, doesn’t emit feedback (sound or vibration) when a new barcode is recognized. However, you may implement a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener) to provide a similar experience. Below, we use the default
[Feedback](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/feedback.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Feedback), but you may configure it with your own sound or vibration if you want.

Next, use this [feedback](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/feedback.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Feedback) in a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener):

```js
const feedbackListener = {
	didUpdateSession: (barcodeBatch, session) => {
		if (session.addedTrackedBarcodes.length > 0) {
			feedback.emit();
		}
	},
};
```

[BarcodeBatchListener.didUpdateSession()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener.OnSessionUpdated) is invoked for every processed frame. The [session](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-session.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSession) parameter contains information about the currently tracked barcodes, in particular, the newly recognized ones. We check if there are any and if so, we emit the feedback.

As the last step, register the listener responsible for emitting the feedback with the [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) instance.

```js
barcodeBatch.addListener(feedbackListener);
```

## Disabling Barcode Batch

To disable barcode tracking call [BarcodeBatch.setEnabled()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch.SetEnabled) passing _false_. No more frames will be processed _after_ the change. However, if a frame is currently being processed, this frame will be completely processed and deliver any results/callbacks to the registered listeners.

Note that disabling the capture mode does not stop the camera, the camera continues to stream frames until it is turned off or put it in standby calling [SwitchToDesiredState](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource.SwitchToDesiredStateAsync) with a value of [StandBy](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#value-scandit.datacapture.core.FrameSourceState.Standby).

### Limitations[](#limitations 'Permalink to this headline')

MatrixScan does not support the following symbologies:

- DotCode
- MaxiCode
- All postal codes (KIX, RM4SCC)

:::important
Barcode Batch needs browser multithreading to run. Check the minimum browser support in the [Requirements Page](../../../system-requirements.md) and how to enable it [Enable Multithreading](#enable-browser-multithreading), above.
:::

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/web/matrixscan/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan to your application.                                                                                      "

sidebar_position: 2
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan to your application.

The general steps are:

- Include the ScanditBarcodeCapture library and its dependencies to your project, if any.
- Create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext), initialized with your license key.
- Create a [barcode tracking settings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSettings) instance where you enable the [barcode symbologies](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/symbology.html#enum-scandit.datacapture.barcode.Symbology) you want to read in your application.
- Create a new [barcode tracking](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) object and initialize it with the settings created above.
- Obtain a [camera](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/camera.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Camera) instance and set it as the frame source on the data capture context previously created.
- Create a new [data capture view](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) and add a [basic overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay) instance to it for visual feedback.
- Register an [overlay listener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener) and implement [BrushForTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.BrushForTrackedBarcode), which is called whenever a new tracked barcode appears.

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### Enable browser multithreading

You can achieve better performance by enabling multithreading in any browser that supports it. Check the [Requirements Page](../../../system-requirements.md) to know the minimum versions that can take advantage of multithreading.

To enable multithreading you must set your site to be [crossOriginIsolated](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/crossOriginIsolated/). This will enable the SDK to use multithreading and significantly boost performance. If the environment supports it the sdk will automatically use multithreading. You can programmatically check for multithreading supports using [BrowserHelper.checkMultithreadingSupport()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/web/browser-compatibility.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.BrowserHelper.CheckMultithreadingSupport).

:::important
Multithreading is particularly critical for MatrixScan so be sure to configure it correctly following this [tutorial](https://web.dev/coop-coep/). You can also check this [guide to enable cross-origin isolation](https://web.dev/cross-origin-isolation-guide/) and [safely reviving shared memory](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2020/07/safely-reviving-shared-memory/).
:::

An example of how headers could be set:

```sh
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp;
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin;
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin allow-credentials; require-corp origin https://example.com
https://example.net;
```

### Internal dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Create the Data Capture Context

The first step to add capture capabilities to your application is to create a new [data capture context](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext).

```js
// the license key used in configure() will be used
const context = await SDCCore.DataCaptureContext.create();
```

## Configure the Barcode Batch Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode Batch Mode is the [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) object. It is configured through [BarcodeBatchSettings](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSettings) and allows to register one or more [listeners](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener) that will get informed whenever a new frame has been processed.

Most of the times, you will not need to implement a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener), instead you will add a [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay) and implement a [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener).

For this tutorial, we will setup Barcode Batch for tracking QR codes.

Next, create a [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) instance with the data capture context and the settings initialized in the previous steps:

```js
const barcodeBatch = await SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatch.forContext(
	context,
	settings
);
```

## Use the Built-in Camera

The data capture context supports using different frame sources to perform recognition on. Most applications will use the built-in camera of the device, e.g. the world-facing camera of a device. The remainder of this tutorial will assume
that you use the built-in camera.

When using the built-in camera there are recommended settings for each capture mode. These should be used to achieve the best performance and user experience for the respective mode. The following couple of lines show how to get the recommended settings and create the camera from it:

```js
const camera = SDCCore.Camera.default;

const cameraSettings = SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatch.recommendedCameraSettings;
await camera.applySettings(cameraSettings);
```

Because the frame source is configurable, the data capture context must be told which frame source to use. This is done with a call to [DataCaptureContext.setFrameSource()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/data-capture-context.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.DataCaptureContext.SetFrameSourceAsync):

```js
await context.setFrameSource(camera);
```

The camera is off by default and must be turned on. This is done by calling
[FrameSource.switchToDesiredState()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource.SwitchToDesiredStateAsync) with a value of
[FrameSourceState.On](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#value-scandit.datacapture.core.FrameSourceState.On):

```js
await camera.switchToDesiredState(Scandit.FrameSourceState.On);
```



## Use a Capture View to Visualize the Scan Process

When using the built-in camera as frame source, you will typically want to display the camera preview on the screen together with UI elements that guide the user through the capturing process. To do that, add a [DataCaptureView](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/data-capture-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.DataCaptureView) to your view hierarchy:

```js
const view = await SDCCore.DataCaptureView.forContext(context);
view.connectToElement(htmlElement);
```

To visualize the results of Barcode Batch, first you need to add the following [overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay):

```js
const overlay =
	await SDCBarcode.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay.withBarcodeBatchForView(
		barcodeBatch,
		view
	);
```

Once the overlay has been added, you should implement the [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener) interface. The method [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.brushForTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.BrushForTrackedBarcode) is invoked every time a new tracked barcode appears and it can be used to set a [brush](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/ui/brush.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.ui.Brush) that will be used to highlight that specific barcode in the [overlay](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.BarcodeBatchBasicOverlay).

```js
overlay.listener = {
	brushForTrackedBarcode: (overlay, trackedBarcode) => {
		// Return a custom Brush based on the tracked barcode.
	},
};
```

If you would like to make the highlights tappable, you need to implement the [BarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.didTapTrackedBarcode()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-batch-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.ui.IBarcodeBatchBasicOverlayListener.OnTrackedBarcodeTapped) method.

```js
overlay.listener = {
	didTapTrackedBarcode: (overlay, trackedBarcode) => {
		// A tracked barcode was tapped.
	},
};
```

## Get Barcode Batch Feedback

Barcode Batch, unlike Barcode Capture, doesn’t emit feedback (sound or vibration) when a new barcode is recognized. However, you may implement a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener) to provide a similar experience. Below, we use the default
[Feedback](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/feedback.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Feedback), but you may configure it with your own sound or vibration if you want.

Next, use this [feedback](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/feedback.html#class-scandit.datacapture.core.Feedback) in a [BarcodeBatchListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener):

```js
const feedbackListener = {
	didUpdateSession: (barcodeBatch, session) => {
		if (session.addedTrackedBarcodes.length > 0) {
			feedback.emit();
		}
	},
};
```

[BarcodeBatchListener.didUpdateSession()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.IBarcodeBatchListener.OnSessionUpdated) is invoked for every processed frame. The [session](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch-session.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatchSession) parameter contains information about the currently tracked barcodes, in particular, the newly recognized ones. We check if there are any and if so, we emit the feedback.

As the last step, register the listener responsible for emitting the feedback with the [BarcodeBatch](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch) instance.

```js
barcodeBatch.addListener(feedbackListener);
```

## Disabling Barcode Batch

To disable barcode tracking call [BarcodeBatch.setEnabled()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-batch.html#method-scandit.datacapture.barcode.batch.BarcodeBatch.SetEnabled) passing _false_. No more frames will be processed _after_ the change. However, if a frame is currently being processed, this frame will be completely processed and deliver any results/callbacks to the registered listeners.

Note that disabling the capture mode does not stop the camera, the camera continues to stream frames until it is turned off or put it in standby calling [SwitchToDesiredState](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#method-scandit.datacapture.core.IFrameSource.SwitchToDesiredStateAsync) with a value of [StandBy](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/core/api/frame-source.html#value-scandit.datacapture.core.FrameSourceState.Standby).

### Limitations[](#limitations 'Permalink to this headline')

MatrixScan does not support the following symbologies:

- DotCode
- MaxiCode
- All postal codes (KIX, RM4SCC)

:::important
Barcode Batch needs browser multithreading to run. Check the minimum browser support in the [Requirements Page](../../../system-requirements.md) and how to enable it [Enable Multithreading](#enable-browser-multithreading), above.
:::
