docs/sdks/web/matrixscan-find/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Find is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Find to best fit your needs.

## BarcodeFind Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodeFind` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodeFindListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-find-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.find.IBarcodeFindListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```typescript
barcodeFindMode.addListener({
    didStartSearch: () => {
        // The mode was started
    },
    didPauseSearch: (foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) => {
        // The mode was paused
    },
    didStopSearch: (foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) => {
        // The mode was stopped after the finish button was clicked
    }
});
```

## UI Customization

The `BarcodeFindView` by default shows a set of UI elements, any of which can be optionally hidden:

- Play/Pause button
- Finish button
- Searched items carousel
- Guidance hints
- Progress bar (hidden by default)

Each of these elements can be shown or hidden as needed. For example:

```typescript
barcodeFindView.setShouldShowCarousel(false);
barcodeFindView.setShouldShowProgressBar(true);
// …
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/web/matrixscan-find/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "MatrixScan Find is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Find to best fit your needs.                                                                     "

sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Advanced Configurations

MatrixScan Find is optimized by default for efficiency, accuracy, and a seamless user experience. However, there are multiple advanced settings available to further customize MatrixScan Find to best fit your needs.

## BarcodeFind Listener

You may want more fine-grained knowledge over the different events happening during the life of the `BarcodeFind` mode, such as when the search starts, pauses, and stops.

To do this, you can directly register a [`BarcodeFindListener`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/barcode-capture/api/barcode-find-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.find.IBarcodeFindListener) on the mode itself, keeping in mind that these listeners are called from a background thread.

```typescript
barcodeFindMode.addListener({
    didStartSearch: () => {
        // The mode was started
    },
    didPauseSearch: (foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) => {
        // The mode was paused
    },
    didStopSearch: (foundItems: BarcodeFindItem[]) => {
        // The mode was stopped after the finish button was clicked
    }
});
```

## UI Customization

The `BarcodeFindView` by default shows a set of UI elements, any of which can be optionally hidden:

- Play/Pause button
- Finish button
- Searched items carousel
- Guidance hints
- Progress bar (hidden by default)

Each of these elements can be shown or hidden as needed. For example:

```typescript
barcodeFindView.setShouldShowCarousel(false);
barcodeFindView.setShouldShowProgressBar(true);
// …
```
