docs/sdks/flutter/add-sdk.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
pagination_next: null
framework: flutter
keywords:
  - flutter
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Installation

This page describes how to integrate the Scandit Data Capture SDK into your Flutter project.

## Prerequisites

- The latest stable version of the [Flutter SDK](https://pub.dev/publishers/scandit.com/packages) (for example through the latest Android Studio).
- A project with:
  - minimum iOS deployment target of 14.0 or higher (15.0 or higher for ID Capture)
  - an Android project with target SDK version 23 (Android 6, Marshmallow) and Kotlin 1.7.21 or higher (version 24 or higher for ID Capture).
- A valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key. You can sign up for a free [test account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=test&utm%5Fsource=documentation).

:::tip
Android devices running the Scandit Data Capture SDK need to have a GPU or the performance will drastically decrease.
:::

### Internal Dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps-no-label-capture.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Get a License Key

1. [Sign up](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=test) or [Sign in](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in) to your Scandit account
2. Create a project
3. Create a license key

If you have a paid subscription, please reach out to [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com) if you need a new license key.

## Add the SDK

Currently we support adding the Scandit Data Capture SDK Flutter plugins to your project in two ways. The simplest way is to use the [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/) registry, alternatively you can manually download the plugins and add them to your project.

### Create a new project

If you do not have a Flutter project yet that you’ll use, you should create a new one using your IDE of choice.

### Add the SDK from pub.dev

To add our plugins from the _pub.dev_ registry, you need to open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder, and add the required Scandit plugin(s) as listed under [interal dependencies](#internal-dependencies).

In the following snippet we’re adding multiple plugins for different functionalities, but you can add only the ones you need.

```yml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_barcode: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_text: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_parser: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_id: <version>
```

### Add the SDK manually

After you download the [archive](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/downloads) containing all the plugins, unzip the archive. It includes the available Flutter plugins, including the `scandit-flutter-datacapture-core` plugin that all other plugins depend on.

Move the required plugins to some subdirectory within your app folder (e.g. to `libs/`) and then open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder.

Add required Scandit plugin(s) under dependencies. In the following snippet we’re adding multiple plugins for different functionalities, but you can add only the ones you need.

```yml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_barcode:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-barcode
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_parser:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-parser
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_id:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-id
```

:::tip
You don’t need to add the dependency to the `scandit-flutter-datacapture-core` plugin in the `pubspec.yaml`. However, as all the other Scandit Flutter plugins depend internally on it, you still have to copy it to the same location.
:::

### Install Scandit Data Capture SDK Flutter plugin(s)

Run from terminal:

```sh
flutter pub get
```

## Additional Information

### Android Configuration

On Android, the Scandit SDK uses content providers to initialize the scanning capabilities properly. If your own content providers depend on the Scandit SDK, choose an **initOrder** lower than 10 to make sure the SDK is ready first.

If not specified, **initOrder** is zero by default and you have nothing to worry about.

Check [the official `<provider>` documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/provider-element).


### Camera Permissions

When using the Scandit Data Capture SDK you will want to set the camera as the frame source for various capture modes. On Android, you have to request camera permissions in your own application before starting scanning. To see how you can achieve this, take a look at our [samples](./samples.md).


Remember that, if you want to use the camera as the frame source for barcode, text and label capture, you need to set the “Privacy - Camera Usage Description” field in the `Info.plist` file for iOS.

import OSSLicense from '../../partials/_third-party-licenses-js.mdx';

<OSSLicense/>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/flutter/add-sdk.md, after:

---
description: "import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'; import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';                                                                                            "

sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
pagination_next: null
framework: flutter
keywords:
  - flutter
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Installation

This page describes how to integrate the Scandit Data Capture SDK into your Flutter project.

## Prerequisites

- The latest stable version of the [Flutter SDK](https://pub.dev/publishers/scandit.com/packages) (for example through the latest Android Studio).
- A project with:
  - minimum iOS deployment target of 14.0 or higher (15.0 or higher for ID Capture)
  - an Android project with target SDK version 23 (Android 6, Marshmallow) and Kotlin 1.7.21 or higher (version 24 or higher for ID Capture).
- A valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key. You can sign up for a free [test account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=test&utm%5Fsource=documentation).

:::tip
Android devices running the Scandit Data Capture SDK need to have a GPU or the performance will drastically decrease.
:::

### Internal Dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps-no-label-capture.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Get a License Key

1. [Sign up](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-up?p=test) or [Sign in](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in) to your Scandit account
2. Create a project
3. Create a license key

If you have a paid subscription, please reach out to [Scandit Support](mailto:support@scandit.com) if you need a new license key.

## Add the SDK

Currently we support adding the Scandit Data Capture SDK Flutter plugins to your project in two ways. The simplest way is to use the [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/) registry, alternatively you can manually download the plugins and add them to your project.

### Create a new project

If you do not have a Flutter project yet that you’ll use, you should create a new one using your IDE of choice.

### Add the SDK from pub.dev

To add our plugins from the _pub.dev_ registry, you need to open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder, and add the required Scandit plugin(s) as listed under [interal dependencies](#internal-dependencies).

In the following snippet we’re adding multiple plugins for different functionalities, but you can add only the ones you need.

```yml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_barcode: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_text: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_parser: <version>
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_id: <version>
```

### Add the SDK manually

After you download the [archive](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/downloads) containing all the plugins, unzip the archive. It includes the available Flutter plugins, including the `scandit-flutter-datacapture-core` plugin that all other plugins depend on.

Move the required plugins to some subdirectory within your app folder (e.g. to `libs/`) and then open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder.

Add required Scandit plugin(s) under dependencies. In the following snippet we’re adding multiple plugins for different functionalities, but you can add only the ones you need.

```yml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_barcode:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-barcode
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_parser:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-parser
  scandit_flutter_datacapture_id:
    path: libs/scandit-flutter-datacapture-id
```

:::tip
You don’t need to add the dependency to the `scandit-flutter-datacapture-core` plugin in the `pubspec.yaml`. However, as all the other Scandit Flutter plugins depend internally on it, you still have to copy it to the same location.
:::

### Install Scandit Data Capture SDK Flutter plugin(s)

Run from terminal:

```sh
flutter pub get
```

## Additional Information

### Android Configuration

On Android, the Scandit SDK uses content providers to initialize the scanning capabilities properly. If your own content providers depend on the Scandit SDK, choose an **initOrder** lower than 10 to make sure the SDK is ready first.

If not specified, **initOrder** is zero by default and you have nothing to worry about.

Check [the official `<provider>` documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/provider-element).


### Camera Permissions

When using the Scandit Data Capture SDK you will want to set the camera as the frame source for various capture modes. On Android, you have to request camera permissions in your own application before starting scanning. To see how you can achieve this, take a look at our [samples](./samples.md).


Remember that, if you want to use the camera as the frame source for barcode, text and label capture, you need to set the “Privacy - Camera Usage Description” field in the `Info.plist` file for iOS.

import OSSLicense from '../../partials/_third-party-licenses-js.mdx';

<OSSLicense/>
