docs/barcode-scanning.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: sdcSidebar
title: 'Barcode Scanning'
---

# Scandit Barcode Scanning

Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation. You can use Smart Data Capture to easily build high-performance data capture applications that leverage the latest advancements in computer vision and machine learning.

Add barcode scanning to any application, using either the pre-built UI components and fully-customizable APIs of the Scandit Barcode Scanner SDK, or the Scandit Express application.

## Feature Comparison

The table below provides an overview of the features and capabilities, and the use cases, available for the pre-built UI components and the fully-customizable APIs:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th colSpan="4">Prebuilt Barcode Scanning Components</th>
      <th colSpan="2">Fully-Customizable APIs</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>SparkScan</td>
      <td>MatrixScan Count</td>
      <td>MatrixScan Find</td>
      <td>Barcode selection</td>
      <td>Barcode capture</td>
      <td>MatrixScan + Augmented Reality</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scan one barcode at the time</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scan multiple barcodes at the same time</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Select a single barcode out of many</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>AR overlays</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>No pre-built UI</td>
      <td>No pre-built UI</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Extent of customization</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Customizable</td>
      <td>Fully customizable</td>
      <td>Fully customizable</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Use cases and scenarios</td>
      <td>Recommended for all high speed single scanning.</td>
      <td>Recommended for batch scanning during receiving and inventory counting.</td>
      <td>Recommended for search & find scenarios during picking, packing, shipping and clienteling.</td>
      <td>Recommended for scanning one or several of many crowded codes.</td>
      <td>Applicable to all single scanning use cases.</td>
      <td>Applicable to all multi-scanning use cases.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Pre-built UI Components

The Scandit Barcode Scanning SDK provides a set of pre-built UI components that enable you to quickly and easily integrate barcode scanning into your mobile application. These include:

### SparkScan

SparkScan is a high-speed single scanning mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan a single barcode at a time.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate SparkScan in Android" link="../sdks/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate SparkScan for Web" link="../sdks/web/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate SparkScan in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate SparkScan in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate SparkScan in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate SparkScan in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate SparkScan for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate SparkScan in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate SparkScan in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan Count

MatrixScan Count is a batch scanning mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan Find

MatrixScan Find is a search and find mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and search for a specific barcode.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### Barcode Selection

Barcode Selection is a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and select a specific barcode.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Android" link="../sdks/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>


## Fully-customizable APIs

The Scandit Barcode Scanner SDK provides a comprehensive set of APIs that enable you to fully customize the barcode scanning experience in your mobile application. These include:

### Barcode Capture

Barcode Capture is a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan and capture barcode data.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Android" link="../sdks/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate Barcode Capture for Web" link="../sdks/web/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Titanium" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Titanium" link="../sdks/titanium/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Titanium/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan

MatrixScanis a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and overlay scan feedback on top of the camera view.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate MatrixScan for Web" link="../sdks/web/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

## Scandit Express

Scandit Express is an application that enables you to instantly add barcode scanning to any existing app or software tool on a smart device.It requires no software changes or coding effort, and is compatible with any app or system, even those that cannot be modified.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="Scandit Express" description="Get Started with Scandit Express" link="./hosted/express/overview" smallIcon ><Express/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/barcode-scanning.md, after:

---
description: "Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation. You can use Smart Data Capture to easily build high-performance data capture applications that leverage the latest advancements in computer vision and machine learning.                                          "

sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: sdcSidebar
title: 'Barcode Scanning'
---

# Scandit Barcode Scanning

Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation. You can use Smart Data Capture to easily build high-performance data capture applications that leverage the latest advancements in computer vision and machine learning.

Add barcode scanning to any application, using either the pre-built UI components and fully-customizable APIs of the Scandit Barcode Scanner SDK, or the Scandit Express application.

## Feature Comparison

The table below provides an overview of the features and capabilities, and the use cases, available for the pre-built UI components and the fully-customizable APIs:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th colSpan="4">Prebuilt Barcode Scanning Components</th>
      <th colSpan="2">Fully-Customizable APIs</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>SparkScan</td>
      <td>MatrixScan Count</td>
      <td>MatrixScan Find</td>
      <td>Barcode selection</td>
      <td>Barcode capture</td>
      <td>MatrixScan + Augmented Reality</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scan one barcode at the time</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scan multiple barcodes at the same time</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Select a single barcode out of many</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>AR overlays</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>✅</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>Out-of-the-box UI</td>
      <td>No pre-built UI</td>
      <td>No pre-built UI</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Extent of customization</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Limited</td>
      <td>Customizable</td>
      <td>Fully customizable</td>
      <td>Fully customizable</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Use cases and scenarios</td>
      <td>Recommended for all high speed single scanning.</td>
      <td>Recommended for batch scanning during receiving and inventory counting.</td>
      <td>Recommended for search & find scenarios during picking, packing, shipping and clienteling.</td>
      <td>Recommended for scanning one or several of many crowded codes.</td>
      <td>Applicable to all single scanning use cases.</td>
      <td>Applicable to all multi-scanning use cases.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Pre-built UI Components

The Scandit Barcode Scanning SDK provides a set of pre-built UI components that enable you to quickly and easily integrate barcode scanning into your mobile application. These include:

### SparkScan

SparkScan is a high-speed single scanning mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan a single barcode at a time.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate SparkScan in Android" link="../sdks/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate SparkScan for Web" link="../sdks/web/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate SparkScan in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate SparkScan in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate SparkScan in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate SparkScan in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate SparkScan for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate SparkScan in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate SparkScan in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate SparkScan in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/sparkscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan Count

MatrixScan Count is a batch scanning mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Count in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan-count/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan Find

MatrixScan Find is a search and find mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and search for a specific barcode.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan Find in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan-find/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### Barcode Selection

Barcode Selection is a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and select a specific barcode.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Android" link="../sdks/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate Barcode Selection in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/barcode-selection/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>


## Fully-customizable APIs

The Scandit Barcode Scanner SDK provides a comprehensive set of APIs that enable you to fully customize the barcode scanning experience in your mobile application. These include:

### Barcode Capture

Barcode Capture is a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan and capture barcode data.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Android" link="../sdks/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate Barcode Capture for Web" link="../sdks/web/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Titanium" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Titanium" link="../sdks/titanium/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><Titanium/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate Barcode Capture in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/barcode-capture/get-started" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

### MatrixScan

MatrixScanis a mode that enables you to quickly and easily scan multiple barcodes at the same time and overlay scan feedback on top of the camera view.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Android" link="../sdks/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate MatrixScan for Web" link="../sdks/web/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate MatrixScan in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate MatrixScan in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate MatrixScan in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate MatrixScan in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/matrixscan/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

## Scandit Express

Scandit Express is an application that enables you to instantly add barcode scanning to any existing app or software tool on a smart device.It requires no software changes or coding effort, and is compatible with any app or system, even those that cannot be modified.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="Scandit Express" description="Get Started with Scandit Express" link="./hosted/express/overview" smallIcon ><Express/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>
