docs/id-documents.mdx, before:

---
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Supported ID Documents

## ID Scanning Supported Documents

ID Capture offers different [IdCaptureScanner](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-scanner.html#id-capture-scanner) types. Each scanner type offers a different scan flow, where either parts of the document or the whole document including front and back side is scanned. This sections lists the supported documents for each scanner type.

import IdDocumentsFull from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-full-document.mdx';

<IdDocumentsFull/>

import IdDocumentsSingleSide from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-single-side.mdx';

<IdDocumentsSingleSide/>

## ID Validation Supported Documents

ID Validate supports documents that follow the Driver License/Identification Card specification by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA). The following ID types are supported:

import IdValidateDocuments from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-validate.mdx';

<IdValidateDocuments/>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/id-documents.mdx, after:

---
description: "List of supported ID documents for ID Capture and ID Validate."
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Supported ID Documents

## ID Scanning Supported Documents

ID Capture offers different [IdCaptureScanner](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/id-capture/api/id-capture-scanner.html#id-capture-scanner) types. Each scanner type offers a different scan flow, where either parts of the document or the whole document including front and back side is scanned. This sections lists the supported documents for each scanner type.

import IdDocumentsFull from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-full-document.mdx';

<IdDocumentsFull/>

import IdDocumentsSingleSide from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-single-side.mdx';

<IdDocumentsSingleSide/>

## ID Validation Supported Documents

ID Validate supports documents that follow the Driver License/Identification Card specification by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA). The following ID types are supported:

import IdValidateDocuments from './partials/advanced/_id-documents-validate.mdx';

<IdValidateDocuments/>
