docs/id-scanning.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'ID Scanning and Validation'
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: sdcSidebar
---

# Scandit ID Scanning and Validation

Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation.

Scandit can capture and extract data from over 2,000 identity documents worldwide. The ID Capture API can be used to read Machine Readable Zones (MRZ) on passports, visa stickers and ID cards, and PDF417 barcodes on the back of driver’s licenses and ID cards, as well as visual inspection zones on the front of various ID documents.

To experience Scandit scanning and verification capabilities firsthand, check out the ID Scanning mode on the Scandit Barcode Scanner Demo App ([iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/scandit-barcode-scanner-demo/id453880584?ls=1), [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.scandit.demoapp&pli=1)), our [ID Bolt demo](https://id-travel.demos.scandit.com/) or get started using your desired framework below.

## ID Scanning and Validation

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Android" link="../sdks/android/id-capture/intro" Icon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate ID Scanning for Web" link="../sdks/web/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate ID Scanning in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

## ID Bolt

ID Bolt is a cloud-based identity scanning solution that can be quickly and easily integrated into any existing web-based application. ID Bolt can be used to scan and extract data from a wide range of identity documents, including passports, visas, driver’s licenses, and ID cards.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="ID Bolt" description="Get Started with ID Bolt" link="../hosted/id-bolt/overview" smallIcon ><Bolt/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/id-scanning.md, after:

---
description: "Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation.                                                                  "

sidebar_position: 1
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_label: 'ID Scanning and Validation'
hide_title: true
displayed_sidebar: sdcSidebar
---

# Scandit ID Scanning and Validation

Scandit Smart Data Capture is a powerful suite of solutions designed to enable mobile devices to capture and process a wide range of barcodes and other types of data, including ID scanning and validation.

Scandit can capture and extract data from over 2,000 identity documents worldwide. The ID Capture API can be used to read Machine Readable Zones (MRZ) on passports, visa stickers and ID cards, and PDF417 barcodes on the back of driver’s licenses and ID cards, as well as visual inspection zones on the front of various ID documents.

To experience Scandit scanning and verification capabilities firsthand, check out the ID Scanning mode on the Scandit Barcode Scanner Demo App ([iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/scandit-barcode-scanner-demo/id453880584?ls=1), [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.scandit.demoapp&pli=1)), our [ID Bolt demo](https://id-travel.demos.scandit.com/) or get started using your desired framework below.

## ID Scanning and Validation

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in iOS" link="../sdks/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Ios/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Android" link="../sdks/android/id-capture/intro" Icon ><Android/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Web" description="Integrate ID Scanning for Web" link="../sdks/web/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Javascript/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Cordova" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Cordova" link="../sdks/cordova/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Cordova/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="React Native" description="Integrate ID Scanning in React Native" link="../sdks/react-native/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><ReactIcon/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Flutter" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Flutter" link="../sdks/flutter/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Flutter/> </CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Capacitor" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Capacitor" link="../sdks/capacitor/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><Capacitor/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Xamarin iOS" link="../sdks/xamarin/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning for Xamarin Android" link="../sdks/xamarin/android/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title="Xamarin Forms" description="Integrate ID Scanning in Xamarin Forms" link="../sdks/xamarin/forms/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><XamarinForms/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET iOS" description="Integrate ID Scanning in .NET iOS" link="../sdks/net/ios/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><NetIos/></CustomDocCard>

<CustomDocCard title=".NET Android" description="Integrate ID Scanning in .NET Android" link="../sdks/net/android/id-capture/intro" smallIcon ><NetAndroid/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

## ID Bolt

ID Bolt is a cloud-based identity scanning solution that can be quickly and easily integrated into any existing web-based application. ID Bolt can be used to scan and extract data from a wide range of identity documents, including passports, visas, driver’s licenses, and ID cards.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>

<CustomDocCard title="ID Bolt" description="Get Started with ID Bolt" link="../hosted/id-bolt/overview" smallIcon ><Bolt/></CustomDocCard>

</CustomDocCardsWrapper>
