docs/sdks/web/label-capture/advanced.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Advanced Configurations

## Customize the Overlay Appearance

To customize the appearance of the overlay, you can implement a [LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener).

The method [brushForLabel()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForLabel) is called every time a label captured and [brushForField()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForField) is called for each of its fields to determine the brush for the label or field.

```js
const overlayListener = LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener>(() => ({
    brushForFieldOfLabel: (_, field) => {
      switch (field.name) {
      case "<your-barcode-field-name>":
        return new Brush(
          "rgba(0, 255, 255, 0.5)",
          "rgba(0, 255, 255, 0.5)",
          0)
      case "<your-expiry-date-field-name>":
        return new Brush(
          "rgba(255, 165, 0, 0.5)",
          "rgba(255, 165, 0, 0.5)",
          0)
      default:
        return new Brush(
          Colors.transparentColor,
          Colors.transparentColor,
          0)
    },
    brushForLabel() {
      return new Brush(Colors.transparentColor, Colors.transparentColor, 0)
    },
    didTapLabel() {
      /*
       * Handle user tap gestures on the label.
       */
    }
  }), [])

useEffect(() => {
    /*
     * Assign the overlay listener to the overlay
     * before adding it to the data capture view.
     */
    overlay.listener = overlayListener
    const dataCaptureView = dataCaptureViewRef.current
    dataCaptureView.addOverlay(overlay)
    return () => {
        /*
         * Unassign the overlay listener from the overlay
         * before removing it from the data capture view.
         */
        overlay.listener = null
        dataCaptureView?.removeOverlay(overlay)
    }
}, [])
```

:::tip
Use brush colors with transparency (alpha < 100%) to not occlude the captured barcodes or texts.
:::

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/web/label-capture/advanced.md, after:

---
description: "Guide to customizing overlays in the Scandit Web Label Capture SDK."
sidebar_position: 3
pagination_next: null
framework: web
keywords:
  - web
---

# Advanced Configurations

## Customize the Overlay Appearance

To customize the appearance of the overlay, you can implement a [LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener).

The method [brushForLabel()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForLabel) is called every time a label captured and [brushForField()](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/web/label-capture/api/ui/label-capture-basic-overlay-listener.html#method-scandit.datacapture.label.ui.ILabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener.BrushForField) is called for each of its fields to determine the brush for the label or field.

```js
const overlayListener = LabelCaptureBasicOverlayListener>(() => ({
    brushForFieldOfLabel: (_, field) => {
      switch (field.name) {
      case "<your-barcode-field-name>":
        return new Brush(
          "rgba(0, 255, 255, 0.5)",
          "rgba(0, 255, 255, 0.5)",
          0)
      case "<your-expiry-date-field-name>":
        return new Brush(
          "rgba(255, 165, 0, 0.5)",
          "rgba(255, 165, 0, 0.5)",
          0)
      default:
        return new Brush(
          Colors.transparentColor,
          Colors.transparentColor,
          0)
    },
    brushForLabel() {
      return new Brush(Colors.transparentColor, Colors.transparentColor, 0)
    },
    didTapLabel() {
      /*
       * Handle user tap gestures on the label.
       */
    }
  }), [])

useEffect(() => {
    /*
     * Assign the overlay listener to the overlay
     * before adding it to the data capture view.
     */
    overlay.listener = overlayListener
    const dataCaptureView = dataCaptureViewRef.current
    dataCaptureView.addOverlay(overlay)
    return () => {
        /*
         * Unassign the overlay listener from the overlay
         * before removing it from the data capture view.
         */
        overlay.listener = null
        dataCaptureView?.removeOverlay(overlay)
    }
}, [])
```

:::tip
Use brush colors with transparency (alpha < 100%) to not occlude the captured barcodes or texts.
:::
