docs/hosted/express/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Overview'
title: 'Scandit Express'
displayed_sidebar: expressSidebar
framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

Scandit Express is an application that enables you to instantly add barcode scanning to any existing app or software tool on a smart device.It requires no software changes or coding effort, and is compatible with any app or system, even those that cannot be modified. By adding a keyboard that has a scan button above the standard keys (a keyboard wedge), it allows users to scan barcodes directly into any input field.


Scandit Express is built for enterprise use and supports distribution through mobile device management (MDM) and enterprise mobility management (EMM) systems.

## Minimum Requirements

| Platform | Minimum Version | Camera |
|----------|------------------|--------|
| Android  | 9.0              | 720p, Autofocus and fixed-focus |
| iOS      | 12.0             | 720p, Autofocus and fixed-focus |

## UI/UX

The Scandit Express user interface (UI) is designed to resemble a smartphone camera. It also includes features to reduce user workload and frustration, such as aiming assist, batch scanning, and visual, sound, and haptic feedback. There is also an advanced _Find_ mode that helps frontline workers and customers instantly locate items using an augmented-reality (AR) interface.

![Scandit Express](/img/express/express_ui.png)

Depending on the mode selected, the user has a choice of scanning barcodes one by one or batch scanning many codes simultaneously. For batch scanning, users can scan as many barcodes as they want and verify them in a list, before inputting them into the desired field.

### Scanning Modes

Scandit Express offers multiple scanning modes:

* **Accuracy**: Scans one barcode out of many in the camera’s field of view. It detects all barcodes available and provides an AR overlay to help the user select one target barcode.
* **Speed**: Scans multiple barcodes in quick succession. It removes the need to tap the screen repeatedly.
* **Batch**: Scans all visible barcodes and stores them in a list.
* **Find**: Scans multiple items simultaneously and highlights the ones needed using an AR overlay.

## Security and Compliance

Scandit Express follows the same [security and compliance standards](https://www.scandit.com/company/security/) as all other Scandit products.

Your data belongs to you, and we will never collect it unless authorized by you. No keystrokes are recorded, no images captured for barcode decoding are stored on the device after the scan is complete, and no images are transmitted. Scandit Express is fully functional without network access.

* Devices register with Scandit’s servers to track the total number of devices on which Scandit Express is used.
* No personally identifiable information stored on the device (such as name, phone number, email address, or device ID) is ever processed or transmitted by Scandit Express.
* All communication is encrypted.
* No connectivity into your network and no access to your IT system is required.

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/hosted/express/overview.md, after:

---
description: "Scandit Express is an application that enables you to instantly add barcode scanning to any existing app or software tool on a smart device.It requires no software changes or coding effort, and is compatible with any app or system, even those that cannot be modified. By adding a keyboard that has a scan button above the standard keys (a keyboard wedge), it allows users to scan barcodes directly into any input field.                            "

sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: 'Overview'
title: 'Scandit Express'
displayed_sidebar: expressSidebar
framework: express
tags: [express]
keywords:
  - express
---

Scandit Express is an application that enables you to instantly add barcode scanning to any existing app or software tool on a smart device.It requires no software changes or coding effort, and is compatible with any app or system, even those that cannot be modified. By adding a keyboard that has a scan button above the standard keys (a keyboard wedge), it allows users to scan barcodes directly into any input field.


Scandit Express is built for enterprise use and supports distribution through mobile device management (MDM) and enterprise mobility management (EMM) systems.

## Minimum Requirements

| Platform | Minimum Version | Camera |
|----------|------------------|--------|
| Android  | 9.0              | 720p, Autofocus and fixed-focus |
| iOS      | 12.0             | 720p, Autofocus and fixed-focus |

## UI/UX

The Scandit Express user interface (UI) is designed to resemble a smartphone camera. It also includes features to reduce user workload and frustration, such as aiming assist, batch scanning, and visual, sound, and haptic feedback. There is also an advanced _Find_ mode that helps frontline workers and customers instantly locate items using an augmented-reality (AR) interface.

![Scandit Express](/img/express/express_ui.png)

Depending on the mode selected, the user has a choice of scanning barcodes one by one or batch scanning many codes simultaneously. For batch scanning, users can scan as many barcodes as they want and verify them in a list, before inputting them into the desired field.

### Scanning Modes

Scandit Express offers multiple scanning modes:

* **Accuracy**: Scans one barcode out of many in the camera’s field of view. It detects all barcodes available and provides an AR overlay to help the user select one target barcode.
* **Speed**: Scans multiple barcodes in quick succession. It removes the need to tap the screen repeatedly.
* **Batch**: Scans all visible barcodes and stores them in a list.
* **Find**: Scans multiple items simultaneously and highlights the ones needed using an AR overlay.

## Security and Compliance

Scandit Express follows the same [security and compliance standards](https://www.scandit.com/company/security/) as all other Scandit products.

Your data belongs to you, and we will never collect it unless authorized by you. No keystrokes are recorded, no images captured for barcode decoding are stored on the device after the scan is complete, and no images are transmitted. Scandit Express is fully functional without network access.

* Devices register with Scandit’s servers to track the total number of devices on which Scandit Express is used.
* No personally identifiable information stored on the device (such as name, phone number, email address, or device ID) is ever processed or transmitted by Scandit Express.
* All communication is encrypted.
* No connectivity into your network and no access to your IT system is required.
