docs/sdks/android/sparkscan/workflow-configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuring Workflow Options
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Configuring Scanning and Preview Behavior

SparkScan can be customized to fit a wide range of scanning workflows through the combination of **Scanning Mode**, **Scanning Behavior**, and **Preview Behavior**.

This guide explains all valid combinations and when to use them, along with code examples to help you configure your SparkScan setup.

## Scanning Modes

The following scanning modes are available:

| Mode  | Description   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| **Default** | Optimized for close-range, fast-paced scanning. User can aim easily at the intended barcode.       |
| **Target**  | Best for precise scanning when many barcodes are in view. Adds an aimer to the camera preview. |

Each scanning mode can be configured to work with different scanning behaviors and preview behaviors.

### Scanning Behaviors

| Behavior  | Description  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Single scan**     | Scans one barcode at a time. Requires user interaction before each scan. Ideal for controlled scanning and saving battery. |
| **Continuous scan** | Scans barcodes continuously after being triggered once. Ideal for scanning multiple barcodes quickly.  |

### Preview Behaviors

| Behavior  | Description    |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Default**    | Preview fades out when scanner is off. Helps with battery conservation and allows full view of the app interface.                 |
| **Persistent** | Preview remains darkened when scanner is off. Useful for environments where visual context or barcode selection is always needed. |

## Available Configurations

The combination of scanning mode, scanning behavior, and preview behavior allows for flexible configurations to suit different scanning needs.

### Default Mode + Single Scan + Default Preview

Ideal for basic, one-barcode-at-a-time scanning with minimal power usage.

```kotlin
val settings = SparkScanSettings()
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE

val sparkViewSettings = SparkScanViewSettings()
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT

val sparkView = SparkScanView(context, sparkViewSettings)
```

### Default Mode + Single Scan + Persistent Preview

Suitable for single scans where some visual context is needed between scans.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Default Mode + Continuous Scan + Default Preview

Best for high-speed, repetitive scanning tasks where interface clarity is still needed after scanning.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Default Mode + Continuous Scan + Persistent Preview

Good for rapid scanning when the user needs ongoing visual alignment.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Target Mode + Single Scan + Default Preview

Useful for precision tasks with isolated barcode scanning and less frequent visual alignment.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Target Mode + Single Scan + Persistent Preview

Ideal when barcodes are close together and must be carefully selected, even before activating scanning.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Target Mode + Continuous Scan + Default Preview

Enables high-speed scanning in cluttered barcode environments, with reduced visual distraction between scans.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Target Mode + Continuous Scan + Persistent Preview

Perfect for scanning many barcodes in busy layouts where visual alignment must be constant.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/android/sparkscan/workflow-configuration.md, after:

---
description: "SparkScan can be customized to fit a wide range of scanning workflows through the combination of **Scanning Mode**, **Scanning Behavior**, and **Preview Behavior**.                                                                             "

title: Configuring Workflow Options
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Configuring Scanning and Preview Behavior

SparkScan can be customized to fit a wide range of scanning workflows through the combination of **Scanning Mode**, **Scanning Behavior**, and **Preview Behavior**.

This guide explains all valid combinations and when to use them, along with code examples to help you configure your SparkScan setup.

## Scanning Modes

The following scanning modes are available:

| Mode  | Description   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| **Default** | Optimized for close-range, fast-paced scanning. User can aim easily at the intended barcode.       |
| **Target**  | Best for precise scanning when many barcodes are in view. Adds an aimer to the camera preview. |

Each scanning mode can be configured to work with different scanning behaviors and preview behaviors.

### Scanning Behaviors

| Behavior  | Description  |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Single scan**     | Scans one barcode at a time. Requires user interaction before each scan. Ideal for controlled scanning and saving battery. |
| **Continuous scan** | Scans barcodes continuously after being triggered once. Ideal for scanning multiple barcodes quickly.  |

### Preview Behaviors

| Behavior  | Description    |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| **Default**    | Preview fades out when scanner is off. Helps with battery conservation and allows full view of the app interface.                 |
| **Persistent** | Preview remains darkened when scanner is off. Useful for environments where visual context or barcode selection is always needed. |

## Available Configurations

The combination of scanning mode, scanning behavior, and preview behavior allows for flexible configurations to suit different scanning needs.

### Default Mode + Single Scan + Default Preview

Ideal for basic, one-barcode-at-a-time scanning with minimal power usage.

```kotlin
val settings = SparkScanSettings()
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE

val sparkViewSettings = SparkScanViewSettings()
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT

val sparkView = SparkScanView(context, sparkViewSettings)
```

### Default Mode + Single Scan + Persistent Preview

Suitable for single scans where some visual context is needed between scans.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Default Mode + Continuous Scan + Default Preview

Best for high-speed, repetitive scanning tasks where interface clarity is still needed after scanning.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Default Mode + Continuous Scan + Persistent Preview

Good for rapid scanning when the user needs ongoing visual alignment.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.DEFAULT
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Target Mode + Single Scan + Default Preview

Useful for precision tasks with isolated barcode scanning and less frequent visual alignment.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Target Mode + Single Scan + Persistent Preview

Ideal when barcodes are close together and must be carefully selected, even before activating scanning.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.SINGLE
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```

### Target Mode + Continuous Scan + Default Preview

Enables high-speed scanning in cluttered barcode environments, with reduced visual distraction between scans.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.DEFAULT
```

### Target Mode + Continuous Scan + Persistent Preview

Perfect for scanning many barcodes in busy layouts where visual alignment must be constant.

```kotlin
settings.scanningBehavior = ScanningBehavior.CONTINUOUS
sparkViewSettings.scanningMode = SparkScanScanningMode.TARGET
sparkViewSettings.previewBehavior = PreviewBehavior.PERSISTENT
```
