docs/sdks/android/matrixscan-ar/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan AR to your application. Implementing MatrixScan AR involves two primary elements:

- Barcode AR: The data capture mode that is used for scan and check functionality.
- A Barcode AR View: The pre-built UI elements used to highlight items to be checked.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Configuring the Barcode AR Mode
- Setup the Barcode AR View
- Registering the Listener to notify about found items

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out this [guide](/sdks/android/add-sdk).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### External Dependencies

import ExternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_external-deps-android.mdx';

<ExternalDependencies/>

### Internal Dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextAndroid from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-android.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextAndroid/>

## Configure the Barcode AR Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode AR Mode is the `BarcodeAr` object. You can configure the supported Symbologies through its [`BarcodeArSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-ar-settings.html).

Here we configure it for tracking EAN13 codes, but you should change this to the correct symbologies for your use case.

```java
BarcodeArSettings settings = new BarcodeArSettings();
settings.enableSymbology(Symbology.EAN13_UPCA, true);
```

Then create the mode with the previously created settings:

```java
BarcodeAr mode = new BarcodeAr(dataCaptureContext, settings);
```

## Setup the `BarcodeArView`

MatrixScan AR’s built-in AR user interface includes buttons and overlays that guide the user through the scan and check process. By adding a [`BarcodeArView`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView), the scanning interface is added automatically to your application.

The `BarcodeArView` is where you provide the [`highlightProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.HighlightProvider) and/or [`annotationProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.AnnotationProvider) to supply the highlight and annotation information for the barcodes to be checked. If *null*, a default highlight is used and no annotations are provided.

The `BarcodeArView` appearance can be customized through [`BarcodeArViewSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArViewSettings), properties on the`BarcodeArView`, and the corresponding settings for your desired highlights and/or annotations, to match your application’s look and feel. The following settings can be customized:

* Audio and haptic feedback
* Camera position
* Torch button visibility and its position
* Switch camera button visibility and its position
* Zoom control visibility and its position
* The size, colors, and styles of the highlights and annotations

```java
BarcodeArViewSettings viewSettings = new BarcodeArViewSettings();
viewSettings.setHapticEnabled(false);
viewSettings.setSoundEnabled(false);
viewSettings.setDefaultCameraPosition(CameraPosition.USER_FACING);
```

Next, create a `BarcodeArView` instance with the Data Capture Context and the settings initialized in the previous step. The `BarcodeArView` is automatically added to the provided parent view.

```java
BarcodeArView barcodeArView = BarcodeArView(parentView, barcodeAr, dataCaptureContext, viewSettings);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowCameraSwitchControl(true);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowTorchControl(true);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowZoomControl(true);
barcodeArView.setCameraSwitchControlPosition(Anchor.TOP_RIGHT);
barcodeArView.setTorchControlPosition(Anchor.BOTTOM_RIGHT);
barcodeArView.setZoomControlPosition(Anchor.TOP_LEFT);
```

Configure the [`highlightProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.HighlightProvider) and/or [`annotationProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.AnnotationProvider).

```java
private class AnnotationProvider implements BarcodeArAnnotationProvider {

    @Override
    public void annotationForBarcode(@NonNull Context context, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull Callback callback) {
        BarcodeArStatusIconAnnotation annotation = new BarcodeArStatusIconAnnotation(context, barcode);
        annotation.setText("Example annotation");
        callback.onData(annotation);
    }
}

private class HighlightProvider implements BarcodeArHighlightProvider {

    @Override
    public void highlightForBarcode(@NonNull Context context, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull Callback callback) {
        callback.onData(new BarcodeArRectangleHighlight(context, barcode));
    }
}
```

And set them to the view:

```java
barcodeArView.setHighlightProvider(new HighlightProvider());
barcodeArView.setAnnotationProvider(new AnnotationProvider());
```

Connect the `BarcodeArView` to the Android lifecycle. The view is dependent on calling `BarcodeArView.onPause()`, `BarcodeArView.onResume()`, and `BarcodeArView.onDestroy()` to set up the camera and its overlays properly.

```java
@Override
public void onResume() {
    super.onResume();
    barcodeArView.onResume();
}

@Override
public void onPause() {
    super.onPause();
    barcodeArView.onPause();
}

@Override
public void onDestroyView() {
    super.onDestroyView(); 
    barcodeArView.onDestroy();
}
```

## Register the Listener

If you want a callback when a highlight is tapped, register a [BarcodeArViewUiListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.IBarcodeArViewUiListener).

```java
barcodeArView.setUiListener(new BarcodeArViewUiListener() {
    @Override
    public void onHighlightForBarcodeTapped(@NonNull BarcodeAr barcodeAr, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull BarcodeArHighlight highlight, @NonNull View highlightView) {
        // handle tap
    }
});
```

## Start Searching

With everything configured, you can now start searching for items. This is done by calling `barcodeArView.start()`.

```java
barcodeArView.start();
```

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/android/matrixscan-ar/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan AR to your application. Implementing MatrixScan AR involves two primary elements:                                                                              "

sidebar_position: 2
framework: android
keywords:
  - android
---

# Get Started

In this guide you will learn step-by-step how to add MatrixScan AR to your application. Implementing MatrixScan AR involves two primary elements:

- Barcode AR: The data capture mode that is used for scan and check functionality.
- A Barcode AR View: The pre-built UI elements used to highlight items to be checked.

The general steps are:

- Creating a new Data Capture Context instance
- Configuring the Barcode AR Mode
- Setup the Barcode AR View
- Registering the Listener to notify about found items

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out this [guide](/sdks/android/add-sdk).

:::tip
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to your account [Dashboard](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

### External Dependencies

import ExternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_external-deps-android.mdx';

<ExternalDependencies/>

### Internal Dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

## Create a Data Capture Context

import DataCaptureContextAndroid from '../../../partials/get-started/_create-data-capture-context-android.mdx';

<DataCaptureContextAndroid/>

## Configure the Barcode AR Mode

The main entry point for the Barcode AR Mode is the `BarcodeAr` object. You can configure the supported Symbologies through its [`BarcodeArSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/barcode-ar-settings.html).

Here we configure it for tracking EAN13 codes, but you should change this to the correct symbologies for your use case.

```java
BarcodeArSettings settings = new BarcodeArSettings();
settings.enableSymbology(Symbology.EAN13_UPCA, true);
```

Then create the mode with the previously created settings:

```java
BarcodeAr mode = new BarcodeAr(dataCaptureContext, settings);
```

## Setup the `BarcodeArView`

MatrixScan AR’s built-in AR user interface includes buttons and overlays that guide the user through the scan and check process. By adding a [`BarcodeArView`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView), the scanning interface is added automatically to your application.

The `BarcodeArView` is where you provide the [`highlightProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.HighlightProvider) and/or [`annotationProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.AnnotationProvider) to supply the highlight and annotation information for the barcodes to be checked. If *null*, a default highlight is used and no annotations are provided.

The `BarcodeArView` appearance can be customized through [`BarcodeArViewSettings`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view-settings.html#class-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArViewSettings), properties on the`BarcodeArView`, and the corresponding settings for your desired highlights and/or annotations, to match your application’s look and feel. The following settings can be customized:

* Audio and haptic feedback
* Camera position
* Torch button visibility and its position
* Switch camera button visibility and its position
* Zoom control visibility and its position
* The size, colors, and styles of the highlights and annotations

```java
BarcodeArViewSettings viewSettings = new BarcodeArViewSettings();
viewSettings.setHapticEnabled(false);
viewSettings.setSoundEnabled(false);
viewSettings.setDefaultCameraPosition(CameraPosition.USER_FACING);
```

Next, create a `BarcodeArView` instance with the Data Capture Context and the settings initialized in the previous step. The `BarcodeArView` is automatically added to the provided parent view.

```java
BarcodeArView barcodeArView = BarcodeArView(parentView, barcodeAr, dataCaptureContext, viewSettings);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowCameraSwitchControl(true);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowTorchControl(true);
barcodeArView.setShouldShowZoomControl(true);
barcodeArView.setCameraSwitchControlPosition(Anchor.TOP_RIGHT);
barcodeArView.setTorchControlPosition(Anchor.BOTTOM_RIGHT);
barcodeArView.setZoomControlPosition(Anchor.TOP_LEFT);
```

Configure the [`highlightProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.HighlightProvider) and/or [`annotationProvider`](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#property-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.BarcodeArView.AnnotationProvider).

```java
private class AnnotationProvider implements BarcodeArAnnotationProvider {

    @Override
    public void annotationForBarcode(@NonNull Context context, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull Callback callback) {
        BarcodeArStatusIconAnnotation annotation = new BarcodeArStatusIconAnnotation(context, barcode);
        annotation.setText("Example annotation");
        callback.onData(annotation);
    }
}

private class HighlightProvider implements BarcodeArHighlightProvider {

    @Override
    public void highlightForBarcode(@NonNull Context context, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull Callback callback) {
        callback.onData(new BarcodeArRectangleHighlight(context, barcode));
    }
}
```

And set them to the view:

```java
barcodeArView.setHighlightProvider(new HighlightProvider());
barcodeArView.setAnnotationProvider(new AnnotationProvider());
```

Connect the `BarcodeArView` to the Android lifecycle. The view is dependent on calling `BarcodeArView.onPause()`, `BarcodeArView.onResume()`, and `BarcodeArView.onDestroy()` to set up the camera and its overlays properly.

```java
@Override
public void onResume() {
    super.onResume();
    barcodeArView.onResume();
}

@Override
public void onPause() {
    super.onPause();
    barcodeArView.onPause();
}

@Override
public void onDestroyView() {
    super.onDestroyView(); 
    barcodeArView.onDestroy();
}
```

## Register the Listener

If you want a callback when a highlight is tapped, register a [BarcodeArViewUiListener](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/android/barcode-capture/api/ui/barcode-ar-view.html#interface-scandit.datacapture.barcode.check.ui.IBarcodeArViewUiListener).

```java
barcodeArView.setUiListener(new BarcodeArViewUiListener() {
    @Override
    public void onHighlightForBarcodeTapped(@NonNull BarcodeAr barcodeAr, @NonNull Barcode barcode, @NonNull BarcodeArHighlight highlight, @NonNull View highlightView) {
        // handle tap
    }
});
```

## Start Searching

With everything configured, you can now start searching for items. This is done by calling `barcodeArView.start()`.

```java
barcodeArView.start();
```
