docs/sdks/ios/parser/get-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Get Started

The parser parses data strings, e.g. as found in barcodes, into a set of key-value mappings. In this guide, you will know briefly how to use a parser and what types of parser are currently supported by Scandit. These data formats are supported: [Health Industry Bar Code (HIBC)](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/hibc.html), [GS1 Application Identifier system](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1ai.html) and [Swiss QR Codes](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/swissqr.html), [VIN Vehicle Identification Number](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/vin.html), [IATA Bar Coded Boarding Pass (BCBP)](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/iata-bcbp.html).

More data formats will be added in future releases. Please contact us if the data format you are using is not yet supported, or you want to use the parser on a currently unsupported platform.

## Format-Specific Documentation

- [Supported Data Formats](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/formats.html)
- [HIBC](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/hibc.html)
- [GS1 AI](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1ai.html)
- [GS1 Digital Link](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1-digital-link.html)
- [Swiss QR](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/swissqr.html)
- [VIN](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/vin.html)
- [IATA BCBP](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/iata-bcbp.html)

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

First of all, include the ScanditParser library and its dependencies to your project, if any.

### Internal dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>

Commit message:

Add description frontmatter (#224)
* Date and version

* versioning

* Adds SLC to Xamarin.Android

* Update llms.txt

* Add llms plugin and remove llms.txt

Added 'docusaurus-plugin-llms' to the Docusaurus plugins list in docusaurus.config.ts and deleted the llms.txt file. Minor whitespace change in the Xamarin Android label capture advanced documentation. Updated dependencies in package.json and lock files.

* feat: Add description to markdown files (#218)

This change adds a `description` field to the front matter of markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* update descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: google-labs-jules[bot] <161369871+google-labs-jules[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/sdks/ios/parser/get-started.md, after:

---
description: "The parser parses data strings, e.g. as found in barcodes, into a set of key-value mappings. In this guide, you will know briefly how to use a parser and what types of parser are currently supported by Scandit. These data formats are supported: , and , , .                                                    "

sidebar_position: 2
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
framework: ios
keywords:
  - ios
---

# Get Started

The parser parses data strings, e.g. as found in barcodes, into a set of key-value mappings. In this guide, you will know briefly how to use a parser and what types of parser are currently supported by Scandit. These data formats are supported: [Health Industry Bar Code (HIBC)](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/hibc.html), [GS1 Application Identifier system](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1ai.html) and [Swiss QR Codes](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/swissqr.html), [VIN Vehicle Identification Number](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/vin.html), [IATA Bar Coded Boarding Pass (BCBP)](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/iata-bcbp.html).

More data formats will be added in future releases. Please contact us if the data format you are using is not yet supported, or you want to use the parser on a currently unsupported platform.

## Format-Specific Documentation

- [Supported Data Formats](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/formats.html)
- [HIBC](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/hibc.html)
- [GS1 AI](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1ai.html)
- [GS1 Digital Link](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/gs1-digital-link.html)
- [Swiss QR](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/swissqr.html)
- [VIN](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/vin.html)
- [IATA BCBP](https://docs.scandit.com/data-capture-sdk/ios/parser/iata-bcbp.html)

## Prerequisites

Before starting with adding a capture mode, make sure that you have a valid Scandit Data Capture SDK license key and that you added the necessary dependencies. If you have not done that yet, check out [this guide](../add-sdk.md).

:::note
You can retrieve your Scandit Data Capture SDK license key by signing in to [your Scandit account](https://ssl.scandit.com/dashboard/sign-in).
:::

First of all, include the ScanditParser library and its dependencies to your project, if any.

### Internal dependencies

import InternalDependencies from '../../../partials/get-started/_internal-deps.mdx';

<InternalDependencies/>
